Instructions and structure
    • Each section represents a leadership capability (e.g., vision and direction). 
    • Major questions asked to respondents via survey are indicated by integers (e.g., Question 1, Question 2, etc.). Follow-up questions are indicated by alphanumeric characters after the integer (e.g., Question 1a is a follow-up to Question 1)
    • Title of the respondents are indicated at the beginning of each response under the respective questions. These can be mapped to the ‘Academy Staffing Organization Chart’ provided below, which also indicates whether they directly report to the CEO and their office.

**Academy Staffing Organization Chart**

This document outlines the staffing structure of the Academy, including the titles, reporting relationships, and work locations of its members.

The CEO is Stephen McLeod

**Leadership Team:**

* **Lawrence Mendenhall (COO):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.
* **Tina McGovern (VP FAAO - Foundation):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.
* **Dale Fajardo (VP Education):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.
* **Debra Rosencrans (VP Meetings):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.
* **Joe Car (VP IT):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, working remotely.
* **Flora Lum, MD (VP Quality and Data Science):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.
* **Rebecca Hyder (VP Government Affairs):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in DC.
* **Michael Stevens, JD (General Counsel and VP):** Direct report to Dr. McLeod, based in SFO.

**Other Key Personnel:**

* **Daniel Mummert (Director of Online Education):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Mike Roll (Director of Finance):** Indirect report, based in SFO.
* **Jenny Benjamin (Director of Museum of the Eye):** Indirect report, working remotely.
* **Gail Schmidt (VP Society and Global Relations):** Indirect report, based in SFO.
* **Susanne Medieros (Director of Public Relations):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Brandi Brooks (Director of Comm/Marketing):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Denise Everson (Director of Marketing):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Brandy Keys (Director of Health Policy):** Not a direct report, based in DC.
* **Jessica Kuo (VP Membership and Alliance):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Brendan Marr (Director State Government Affairs):** Not a direct report, based in DC.
* **Beth Wilson (Director Continuing Professional Development):** Not a direct report, based in SFO.
* **Scott Haber (Director of Public Health Relations):** Not a direct report, based in DC. 
* **Louise Owen (Manager Board of Trustees):** Not a direct report.


Section 1: Vision and Direction

Question 1: How effectively does the CEO communicate the company’s vision and strategic direction to the executive team and broader organization?



(Director of Public Health Relations) Dr. McLeod is very effective in communicating the company’s vision and strategic direction across the organization. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) His communication is effective but subtle.  I’m not sure exactly, he doesn’t lead with any simple way to understand it. He has put an emphasis on diversity and research.  He’s creating standards for care.  The strategic direction is the quality reviews on education that we are doing so we’re reflecting the best science behind the program.  He is not a very inspiring or gregarious person.  He’s more reserved and when he does speak there is no emotion but he’s trustworthy.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Regular weekly Executive Team meetings provide opportunity to share CEO’s vision and strategic directions with VPs as well as to respond to questions.

(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Very effectively. Academy staff and physician volunteers seem to be very responsive to his vision. 

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Dr. McLeod has a clear vision for the Academy to ensure its relevance and sustainability. He is a visionary and thinks several steps ahead, which at times may feel abstract and very distant from day-to-day operations. It’s unclear if the broader staff team has a clear understanding of the strategic direction and objectives. The broader team relies on the executive team, directors, and managers to convey and interpret the organizational direction and goals. This may dilute message consistency and focus.
(General Counsel and VP) The CEO effectively communicates his high-level vision and goals for the organization. He is a visionary leader, with a growth-oriented mindset for the Academy. To improve the Academy operations and expand its footprint and reputation. He has made clear his goals to grow the Academy’s operations and reputation, and his expectations for the Executive Team to help implement those goals.  
(VP Quality and Data Science) Extremely well. 
(Director of Comm/Marketing) To exec team: possibly quite well, but to the broader organization, not very well. I think the org relies on the VPs to communicate stuff to their teams and not all the VPs share information well (or at all). There’s not enough communication directly from the CEO to the organization. 
(Director of Public Relations) Dr. McLeod’s decision to establish True North Pillars with strategic priorities early on was an effective way to communicate his vision and direction. Establishing a level set across the Academy was extremely important. Being able to see his priorities in writing was helpful to all staff, in my opinion.
(VP IT) He is a visionary.  I would recommend he speak more about strategic vision and strategy with the executive team and staff. He should also verify that his audience follows what he is saying. It is not clear on how to determine next steps from his communication.  He is sometimes not clear.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) In my experience, the CEO can clearly articulate the Academy’s vision/strategic direction/policy. 
(Director of Health Policy) Dr. McLeod is very effective at communicating the company’s vision to the director team and broader organization. Strategic direction is less impactful as it’s filtered through the executive team, who then execute the tactics specific to their team. 
(Director of Marketing) The development of our True North Pillars with strategic priorities is useful and important. However, it is often challenging for those department/divisions within the organization, who interact with all or most of the Academy divisions, to properly align and efficiently prioritize work to achieve long term objectives.
(VP Meetings) I think this is an area that could be improved. While I believe that The CEO feels he is clear, he is not clear.  He often speaks with academic words that some may not know and speaks in a roundabout manner so it’s difficult to follow what he is saying.  
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I have heard his vision and direction very clearly.  From the perspective of the broader organization the message tends to get watered down or abbreviated. My assessment of his vision is using our time better, don’t do more, do what we do efficiently.  Think about ways we need to evolve as an organization.  There doesn’t seem to be any correlation between becoming more efficient and protecting Eyesite, or linking the vision of the organization to what the CEO asks us to do each day.  
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- When asked, I’m not quite sure what his vision or strategic direction is.  I understand more projects vs. where we are headed as an organization.  There are many projects that come all at once.  When the CEO communicates he is eloquently at a high level. With the executive team he is not as clear, and his style is not to be directive though he is a visionary and has our deep respect.  He wants us to work with our teams and respond in a timely way to what he needs from us even if we only heard it once and sometimes, we don’t get it right. I think this is where he depends on Lawrence, the COO, to translate or interpret for us. Much of the time Lawrence is not happy with how we respond, stating for The CEO that this isn’t what the CEO wants or this is not what he said, so there is often a lack of clear communication and therefore lack of understanding about the project direction.  

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I find him an effective speaker and writer, and he asks for engagement—he would rather talk with someone, not to them. I am not clear on his vision, but he stresses quality and the trust that the Academy brand engenders, and protecting these seem to be his primary interest.   What I know about the vision and direction is only from my VP, no one else.  For the strategic direction, it’s through the COO or other VP’s to translate what his vision is.  Not clear about the strategic direction either.    
(DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM OF THE EYE) A year ago the CEO rolled out the idea of True North Pillars with fiscal year deliverables. It is currently time to set goals again and I haven’t heard anything about the pillars this year. In general, The CEO does an excellent job briefing us about what is going on at the all-staff meetings. It is understood that the projects he describes are part of the Academy’s strategic goals, but they aren’t often framed up, so staff can see how they align up to the pillars…or a larger (multi-year?) strategy.  Not really sure.
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He is very mission driven and always ties projects back to our True North pillars.
(COO) He has set an excellent vision and direction for the organization and team. It has taken time for it to be communicated and he has relied on others (e.g., Lawrence), which is helpful but there is no substitute for direct, short and easy-to-understand messages from him.  
(VP Society and Global Relations) Regular (weekly) Executive Team meetings provide opportunity to share CEO’s vision and strategic directions with VPs as well as to respond to questions. It is beneficial for CEO to continue to communicate following Board meetings to All staff – direction; major outcomes; any new programs/issues, etc.  This engages and motivates all staff and makes them feel part of a broader team. Sometimes he needs to provide ET with greater clarity – as non-physicians, we sometimes need more explanation.
(VP EDUCATION) I believe the CEO communicates the company’s vision and strategic direction quite well. 

Question 1a: What is the vision and strategic direction of the organization?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) I’m not sure exactly, he doesn’t lead with any simple way to understand it. He has put an emphasis on diversity and research.  He’s creating standards for care.  The strategic direction is the quality reviews on education that we are doing so we’re reflecting the best science behind the program.  He is not a very inspiring or gregarious person.  He’s more reserved and when he does speak there is no emotion but he’s trustworthy.  
(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) After looking this up on the Academy website, I realized it was to protect site and empower lives.  The strategic direction is to protect patient safety and eye quality standards throughout the country.  I know people are responsive to this because I can feel it.  I hear feedback from volunteer physicians.  

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Vision is having Interest growing research academy, membership growth in market share, maintaining our position of best in class of academy societies. Investing in his personal time in education and delivery.  Recommend:  Effectively communicating the company’s vision and strategic direction is crucial for alignment and success across all levels at the Academy. Regular vision sharing sessions where the broader team can hear directly from Dr. McLeod can help bridge this gap. While I understand the CEO is tasked to advance the organization and thinks at the 30,000-feet level, staff is also leaning in on him to articulate the vision in more tangible terms. Providing context and utilizing real-time examples and use cases can help the broader team understand the “why” and “how”, which can improve staff engagement and understanding of how they individually contribute to the vision statement of “To be the most valued and credible professional eye care organization.”   *The executive team can benefit from a strategic planning retreat lead by Dr. McLeod to discuss the intricacies of the Academy’s overarching vision and direction and to elucidate the vision*. This is an opportunity for Dr. McLeod to share detailed insights, contextualize strategic decisions and address any questions to ensure the executive team is equipped to translate this into actionable goals and initiatives, and alignment across business units.
(General Counsel and VP) When asked, Michael said that “I’m not sure what the vision is, and I think the strategic direction is around perception of member value”.  I know he wants to be visionary but I’m not sure what success looks like for him. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I think the vision is to empower people through what we do and improve site. I’m not sure what the strategic direction is or projects aligned with that.  My role is to focus on reducing the administrative burden for Ophthalmology practices and maintaining reimbursement for their services.  
(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I am not clear on his vision, but he stresses quality and the trust that the Academy brand engenders, and protecting these seem to be his primary interest.   What I know about the vision and direction is only from my VP, no one else.  For the strategic direction, it’s through the COO or other VP’s to translate what his vision is.  Not clear about the strategic direction either.    



Question 2: Please comment on what makes him least or more effective?  
(Director of Public Health Relations) Academy staff at levels beneath the executive team/VP group. Directors/Managers have more access to the CEO under Dr. McLeod. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) Thoughtful, branching off from existing mission and initiatives, and open to considering new approaches to meeting them.  The CEO has been more open to considering new ways to raise revenue for the Academy.  The previous CEO was against this.  We are experimenting with grant funded CME activities
(General Counsel and VP) During my monthly meetings, if he has a new idea, and wants me to get outside legal opinion then he’s. clear. I only hear it through my 1x3 meetings. 
(Director State Government Affairs) The CEO is a tremendously engaging speaker who captures his audience’s attention with a quality that makes it seem he’s talking directly to you in a clear and pragmatic manner.  
(General Counsel and VP) The CEO is very clear about his overarching goals for how he would like to see the Academy improve its existing operations, as well as his ideas for new projects or programs.
(VP Quality and Data Science) He is very articulate and consistent in his communications, and the vision and strategic direction is well aligned with his actions and behaviors.  
(VP IT) Not clear in his direction with the Executive Team, people are left without knowing what to do after he speaks. He is credible and authoritative when he talks about vision and strategic direction.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) While the message he is trying to convey is clear and well thought out, it can sometimes be difficult to hear our CEO speak in certain large meeting settings if there isn’t a microphone or in zoom meetings taking place in a conference room. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I find the CEO section of our All-Staff meetings effective at communicating vision. Whenever we’re able to have them, 1:1’s with the CEO have helped me feel more clued into the strategic direction of the Academy. 
(Director of Marketing) The feedback I have heard from staff is that they really like to hear from him, but that he can sometime talk a lot. I would recommend being more concise communications would make him more effective.
(VP MEETINGS) He obviously is very smart and knows a lot, but it appears he sometimes has trouble explaining things so everyone can understand. When speaking to the staff, he looks visibly uncomfortable and tends to ramble, so the message is lost. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) He speaks purposefully.  Efficiency is what he wants better. The CEO should say “we need to be more efficient” and then give us more clarity on what, or how to think about it, and how do we organize around being more efficient? He should tell the COO how to orchestrate this. More targeted or specific messaging would only further his vision and strategic direction for the executive team and the broader organization.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) The CEO is very effective as a visionary leader. He has brought so much new and exciting programs to the Academy in a short period of time and is moving us up and onward. I feel like his positivity is contagious. I enjoy working with him.  I think all of us as staff would like see him present an in-depth, comprehensive, all-encompassing vision regarding the ways he envisions the organization cross divisionally with all of his new initiatives working together towards an Academy 2.0 under his leadership. 
(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) The CEO has a florid or tortuous communication. The CEO should be clear, direct and concise when his perspective needs to be understood immediately. I see this level of directness in correspondence with the executive team, but when the message reaches the broader organization, it’s sometimes a confusing or hard to understand what he wants. His communication around vision is abstract and I haven’t heard from him directly.  I appreciate that he wants engagement and wants debate and is not autocratic, and this feels very empowering to me.  He leans in physically, however with Dr. Parker (old leadership), you could see the body language that wasn’t inviting at all.  Dr. Parker would circle around to everyone before the meeting, get the answers and then communicate the results without a lot of engagement in the actual meeting.  Dr. McLeod is much more democratic and solicits debate.  
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) The CEO likes to let the team develop ideas without much direction or input from him. I think this works some of the time but there are times when it seems as though he has a direction/plan in his mind that he would like a project to move in but doesn’t really communicate that to staff and is then disappointed when they don’t deliver what he was envisioning. 
(COO) The CEO uses more academic words to communicate and is less effective as a result.  Repetition and consistency of the vision and direction have helped make the communication more effective. The level of nuance, discussion and number of words and concepts that he is comfortable with, coming from an academic environment, make communications less effective to broad, diverse groups.  Weakness: He doesn’t have repetition and consistency of the vision and direction have helped make the communication more effective. Weakness: He speaks in academic terms he fails to reach his audience.  He needs to be simple and direct. When he talks with the staff if they are less educated, he doesn’t come prepared and he wanders or meanders around the topic.  When he assumes understanding and doesn’t check for it, then it doesn’t get the impact and doesn’t motivate or reach the audience to improve performance.  
(VP Society and Global Relations) Possesses great vision and willingness to move the Academy in new directions which is exciting. Very transparent; trustworthy; appreciates and actively seeks input.
(VP EDUCATION) He is very effective by leading from the front and by example. Going to the Hill to testify before Congress is a shining star example. 

Question 2a: Are there any other traits that make him least or more effective?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) Thoughtful, branching off from existing mission and initiatives, and open to considering new approaches to meeting them.   The CEO has been more open to considering new ways to raise revenue for the Academy.  The previous CEO was against this.  We are experimenting with grant funded CME activities
(General Counsel and VP) During my monthly meetings, if he has a new idea, and wants me to get outside legal opinion then he’s. clear. I only hear it through my 1x3 meetings. 
(Director State Government Affairs) He’s very calm, he’s even handed, and he seems to want to hear everyone’s feedback.   After that he forms a consensus builder.  Other CEOs don’t act like that
(VP EDUCATION) The vision, I think, is to protect site and improve vision.  He does this better than the previous leader, I realize that he’s trying to do better, but he’s not a great communicator. An example I had noticed a meeting yesterday with the COO, we have no idea what the vision is for this new strategy is and then we get into the details it’s not clear.  He needs to add a little more detail, if you don’t know the answer, it’s okay ask the team for a proposal with their ideas.  The CEO doesn’t realize when he asks people to do things they subvert talking with their colleagues trying to please him.  He tells whoever reports to him what he wants done. Change management takes the team. 

Question 3: Recommendations on what he could do to improve or sustain current actions?
(Director of Public Health Relations). Continue engagement with staff at all levels of the organization.  
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) Perhaps do more of it to the overall organization. Staff tend to hear just from the COO. But I’d like to hear about his perspective on the organization and our interaction with the environment, not just internal. Where are we going, how do we fit, his bigger vision for 5-10 years? Inspiring us a bit wouldn’t hurt.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Greater clarity to the Executive Team and Staff.  Make it easy for everyone to ask for clarity.  Have consistent and engaging communications with staff, and the broader organization.  His direction is lost in translation to the people that get the work done. 

(Director State Government Affairs) I would recommend the CEO attend or implement regular and scheduled communication – not necessarily a verbal presentation, but perhaps a quarterly update to the staff from his point of view.  Recommendations: If he had monthly informal messages or discussions from the “Office of the CEO’ would be very helpful.   I only see one portion of the Academy, or one division and I have no idea what others are doing.  This is important for me to know where the other success stories are so we can copy what others are doing.  I also acknowledge that I don’t read the Academy newsletters frequently, so the method of communication with this organization is outdated.  Perhaps try social media forums within the organization to communicate. Example story about Advocacy:  Prior to him coming on board, we were in big silos and Dr. McLeod has made sure that we start collaborating.  By way of this communication, we would even further work more collaboratively if we knew what everyone else was doing.  When Dr. McLeod came in her made it clear that he wanted everyone to work together.  

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I would recommend the CEO have regular vision sharing sessions where the broader team can hear directly from him can help bridge this gap. While I understand the CEO is tasked to advance the organization and thinks at the 30,000-feet level, staff is also leaning in on him to articulate the vision in more tangible terms. Providing context and utilizing real-time examples and use cases can help the broader team understand the “why” and “how”, which can improve staff engagement and understanding of how they individually contribute to the vision statement of “To be the most valued and credible professional eye care organization.”   I would recommend that the CEO lead an executive team strategic planning retreat to discuss the intricacies of the Academy’s overarching vision and direction and to elucidate the vision. This is an opportunity for the CEO to share detailed insights, contextualize strategic decisions and address any questions to ensure the executive team is equipped to translate this into actionable goals and initiatives, and alignment across business units.
(General Counsel and VP) I would recommend offering more specific details about his expectations of new projects, concrete plans, and sometimes even steps to implement those plans, might help ensure smoother and quicker implementation of his vision. The Executive Team and the Academy would benefit from the CEO offering more concrete and incremental goalposts toward accomplishing his larger goals.  It’s not clear to me what success looks like. 
(VP Quality and Data Science) A repetition of vision and strategic direction would help to solidify understanding.  
(Director of Public Relations) Sustaining and reinforcing the vision overtime appears to now be dependent on individual VPs to keep the Pillars at the forefront and holding their staff accountable, at least from what I’ve observed. I would recommend that the CEO communicate, clarity and integrate his vision and direction into daily operations in a seamless way might help sustain his current approach. 
(VP IT) I would recommend he speak more about strategic vision and strategy with the executive team and staff. He should also verify that his audience follows what he is saying. I have seen some instances where he has discussed a topic/direction, and it was hard for some to determine their next steps from his communication.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Be clear, with adequate volume so your audience can hear you.  
(Director of Health Policy) I would recommend more frequent 1:1’s and a twice-yearly Town Hall meeting with all leadership VP’s and Directors.
(Director of Marketing) I would recommend the CEO lead an alignment effort within the organization in terms of communications, business practices and standards, organizational culture, and technology. These are things where I see an opportunity to bridge some gaps and evolve how we work. This could help staff meet speed-to-market demands of final deliverables and achieve a more rewarding and fulfilling work culture where there is increased communication, collaboration, and innovation.
(VP MEETINGS) I recommend the CEO benefit from a communication coach to help refine his body language, focus his message and learn to speak at a level meant for the public (8th grade reading level or lower). 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I would recommend more targeted or specific messaging to further the vision and strategic direction for the executive team and the broader organization.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) I would recommend he speak directly to the VP’s about clarity of the steps to take, otherwise the COO steps in to translate for the CEO and often doesn’t get it accurate. 

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I would recommend the CEO communicate more clearly and directly with staff to ensure they understand project priorities, direction, and expectations.

(COO) I would recommend the CEO focus on communicating in short, digestible bites that reach more listeners with other styles. Repeat and stay consistent with those messages.  What do you mean by direct?   Recommendation: Think in PowerPoint terms or A-3 thinking.  Make sure you have context, your point, and outcomes.  If you are just going to lunch you must be intentional, and if you are going make sure you are letting them know it’s just brainstorming and talk and not a directive, it takes people off in a tailspin.  He needs to put himself into other people’s shoes, walk around and get to know what moves other people.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) I would recommend the CEO relay the ‘why’ we are moving in a new or different direction, so everyone understands and is in alignment with his vision.  The CEO could also encourage or set an expectation for the VP’s to communicate to their respective staff.  
(VP EDUCATION) I would recommend he reduce the amount of “ums” in his speaking voice, this is distracting.  

Section 2: Leadership Style

Question 4: Can you describe the CEO’s leadership style, and how does it impact the organization’s culture and performance?

(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS).  Dr. McLeod is vocal about advancing the Academy’s mission but within that framework he has allowed for staff to bring new ideas and/or programs to the table. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) As far as I can tell, his leadership style is subtle. Working through others through influence. 
(General Counsel and VP) The CEO is very good at setting forth an overall view for the Academy, he values group discussion and allows the Executive Team to discuss their different views, even when that process gives rise to divergent opinions. We spend time talking about the True North Pillars and Strategic goals, which I think are attendance, revenue mostly financial.  
(Director State Government Affairs) What makes him effective is that he doesn’t lead by carrying a “big stick,” or by “top-down” edicts from up on high (i.e. “my way or the highway”), but rather as a consensus builder by engaging all stakeholders. That said, he exudes great confidence and resolve in his decisions, which I believe resonates with the organization’s staff. 
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The CEO is a visionary leader. He possesses strategic foresight and anticipates industry trends and environment shifts, which enables him to lead the Academy to pivot and retain our positioning as the global ophthalmology leader. The CEO has a clear vision for the Academy. However, as an introvert, he does not have a prominent presence among the broader team to help cultivate a cohesive organizational culture, particularly pertaining to accountability, recognition, and resource allocation. 

(VP Quality and Data Science) The CEO has a Leadership style to lead by example, provide vision and strategic north pillars, place a high weight on well thought out, advance preparation, thorough approaches to problem solving.

(Director of Comm/Marketing) The CEO’s leadership style is quiet, which makes it challenging to know where we’re going.
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) The CEO’s leadership style is data-driven and takes a scientific approach to addressing issues. He uses an A3 approach to tackle issues/problems and this helps guide staff to appropriate solutions. He seems approachable, though I haven’t engaged him proactively. 
(VP IT) The CEO is collegial, collaborative, authoritative, and informed. The CEO’s leadership style gives me confidence that we are doing what is best for the members and heading toward new initiatives that will fit the Academy’s mission.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) The CEO’s leadership style to be collaborative because he involves us in the process and relies on us to help convey this information to our teams and physician leaders.  I think this collaborative style has brought a new energy to the Academy’s culture and our staff’s performance as people feel more connected.
(Director of Health Policy) The CEO’s leadership style is collaborative. He’s well informed on all the issues, but he lets the subject matter expert take the lead. I think this establishes a culture of trust for our organization and encourages employees to be or become more confident in their own expertise. 
(Director of Marketing) I would recommend the CEO be more transformational than transactional. I recommend we should work on having agreed upon values and team norms (culture) where there is more alignment with communications and behaviors within the organization.
(VP MEETINGS) We are still learning his leadership style, he’s not available. To me it’s not clear if he wants the COO to be the middleman or if the COO wants it to be that way.  We have much less direct access to the CEO for many of the VPs than there used to be with previous CEOs.  This makes everything take longer because the VPs are often the ones who know the details of an issue.  It would be more effective and efficient to have them in the room when their issue is being discussed.
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) He is very thoughtful in everything he does, for me, this is a calming effect.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) There are many new faces at the Academy, so I don’t know how the CEO style impacts the culture.  Many work remotely and it is difficult to ascertain what the culture is like these days. It would be useful if he would do walk-arounds and make himself more available.  On It seems trivial but matters greatly to have that one-on-one connection to him from time to time.  It seems that everywhere I turn at the Academy every division feels they are too lean and need more people.  Generating revenue at the current staffing levels seems unattainable, I’m not sure he realizes this.  

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) The CEO’s leadership seems a balance amongst democratic, participative, and bureaucratic. He regularly seeks input from the larger group, seems to deliberate carefully and make inclusive decisions. He participates directly in meetings and he seeks active discussion and critical pushback against his own ideas. Occasionally, he favors firm policies and processes. In all I believe his leadership style encourages feedback and ideas from the larger organization, which supports growth and iterative change.   
(DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM OF THE EYE) One of the CEO’s strengths are his relaxed affect. I believe his leadership style is best exemplified by his asking staff to call him Stephen, rather than Dr. McLeod. This small thing puts people at ease. His speaking style at all staff meetings is likewise informal and as a result, I think staff see the Academy as a friendly, collaborative workplace. 
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) The CEO has a relaxed and casual style that makes me feel at ease. He is always friendly with staff and keeps his door open when he is not in meetings, which is very welcoming. He doesn’t micromanage and seems to prefer a more hands-off approach offering direction when it is asked for. There is a lack of clarity for staff who want to make sure his expectations are met. 
(COO) The CEO has a very positive, very transparent, extremely strategic style with relationships. He assumes everyone is as smart and committed as he is. This assumption has helped inspire and fuel a positive culture and performance. The CEO has very high standards which may be too high in some cases.  These high standards may be inspiring for some but can demotivate others who aren’t as used to the hierarchical and competitive world he seems to love. The CEO is a delegator used to having a large team of doers. He also seems overstretched, not acting with great self-care at times, which long term may lead to burnout or frustration. When the CEO is stressed, his communication can be experienced as more adversarial. 
(VP Society and Global Relations) The CEO strongly encourages collaboration across Academy divisions so that we continue to move away from silos. Is democratic with a team-based approach making staff feel valued and unified.  This is beneficial at the staff level as well as at the Board level. When necessary, as in times of ‘crisis’, is appropriately directive.  I would recommend that at times he could be more directive.
(VP EDUCATION) The CEO has a relaxed leadership style that is based on an egalitarian approach. I believe it’s been a refreshing change for the Board of Trustees, as the Board is engaging in more meaningful conversations, resulting in a more engaged board. The CEO has a collaborative approach and willingness to listen to all colleagues at all levels of the chain of command. I believe that knowing he is open to input from all ensures that the best strategy and decisions will come to fruition and be executed.

Question 4a: How do you know this affects performance?  How is the organization improving performance as an impact of his leadership capabilities?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) My boss interprets what the CEO really wants, and therefore we can or cannot pursue any example project. The CEO puts an emphasis on root cause analysis, or when he’s considering changing it.  If we want to solve this problem, then you need to use a problem-solving tool.  She’s not been trained in this business setting on A-3’s, they’ve just encouraged us to google it.  We use this tool really for presentations so the CEO can see more data supported projects but it’s not really used as a PI tool.  
(General Counsel and VP) We spend time talking about the True North Pillars and Strategic goals, which I think are attendance, revenue mostly financial.  
(Director State Government Affairs) Example:  In this collaborative group to improve advocacy, before he came here, we never utilized other departments when it came to fundraising (surgical scope fund) and out of his leadership, we had an unprecedented fundraising year last year, 2M dollars. This is due to his direction.  I also give credit to my staff who knows how to utilize the assets available and tools to work with communication on messaging.   Timeliness and frequency and strategic messaging.  Example:  We had this big campaign to protect Eyesite at the VA.  The CEO was 1000% supportive and it was Peer to Peer fundraising, and we recruited 75 different Ophthalmologist, and you need to raise $5,000 from your colleagues.  Sponsor me run 10 miles, bike 60 miles.  
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Recommendations:  Staffing, budget to implement the vision, we don’t have the resources to do this.   We are being pulled in different directions and it’s hard to maintain focus.   Clear division of labor between CEO and COO.  Operational pieces fall under Lawrence.  There isn’t interest in the operational pieces by the CEO. Recommendation:  Stephen needs to understand core operations to understand what resources it takes to do that project.  A regular Town Hall communication would humanize his position and reinforces that the Academy is a supportive and inclusive environment.
(Director of Health Policy) Example: With united healthcare cyber-attack in February of 2024, he had conversations with _____ agency in a pointed letter about their poor response. The CEO immediately looped Brandy in and had a conversation with them and he let her lead.  Knowing he had my back, and he could step in if I needed him was wonderful.  Made me feel confident.  This is how we do things together. 

Question 5: What specific behaviors attribute to the CEO’s effectiveness as a leader?
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) He is accessible and willing to engage with staff and provide feedback.
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) The CEO’s reputation for honesty, rigor, open to new ideas, and well-considered decisions. 
(General Counsel and VP) The CEO listens attentively to his Executive Team, and readily provides positive reinforcement. He says “thank you” readily, and acknowledges team members’ contributions, and these behaviors help build camaraderie and a sense of being valued.
(VP Quality and Data Science). The CEO is a brilliant, intellectual thinker, strategic perspective, very high ethics and moral compass, empathy, sense of humor.
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) The CEO clearly prioritizes taking positions based on the latest, peer-reviewed science, and I appreciate that. He’s protective of the Academy’s earned reputation.
(VP IT) His communication style and level of engagement. 
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) The CEO makes a point of meeting with the directors in the Governmental Affairs division when he is in the DC office, and I think that has been very effective in making them feel valued and that their opinions carry weight. He doesn’t hesitate to get engaged in our advocacy efforts and frequently volunteers to reach out to key Academy members or his colleagues in other physician societies if it will be helpful for our efforts. I think that type of engagement from the top is important for our staff and physician volunteers to see because it is leading by example. I think it also makes them feel like their work/efforts are valued/appreciated by the Academy as an organization.
(Director of Health Policy) The CEO is an active listener.  
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) I think the CEO has integrity, confidence, and the ability to influence stakeholders.

(VP MEETINGS) The CEO is very smart and knows a lot about ophthalmology, health policy and other related topics.

(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) The CEO gathers data and facts before action.  He also has a very easy manner about him which makes dialog collaborative.

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) I feel that there is a high level of respect and attention paid to the CEO.  It is fortunate for me that I can hear directly from him and witness a high functioning team of professional’s work through challenges.  His style is calm. He sets forth to always elicit opinions and his questions are posed to elicit ways to solve for a problem, not just manage top down with orders.  The CEO has a very effective style.
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) The CEO’s humility and willingness to listen to all sides. He is a deep thinker and does a great job of considering a problem from multiple angles before offering a solution. I also find him very responsive to questions and easy to work with and I appreciate his quick responses to emails, even when he is traveling overseas.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) The CEO is a visionary thinker; effective listener; brilliant; collaborative leadership style.

Question 6: How could he enhance or maintain his current leadership style to better support organizational goals?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) The CEO could be more visible to staff beyond VPs.   It feels like since he’s been here, he relies on the VPs for all translation or work to communicate.  The message is not a standard one, it’s like telephone tag and gets diluted so because of all this, he’s a mystery to many of us. If he were more visible, we would be more inspired and connected to the vision.  The previous CEO would walk around at 7:30am and complain that no one was there.  Now that we’re hybrid we don’t see the CEO.   We used to have an all-staff weekly meeting, where that is not reasonable, it would be great to hear succinct and clear direction from him more frequently.  I would like to see him create a community with us and inspire us to the vision.  The CEO doesn’t do this.  I would recommend he do a Town Hall, and less didactic and more informal.   I also heard from others that we thought he would be more visible, but we haven’t really seen him much and we were excited that he was going to be here and it’s been a little deflating that it’s not been that.  
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The CEO could increase his visibility and accessibility to him through routine touchpoints (e.g., in addition to CEO updates during quarterly all-staff meetings, consider attending a division or cross-divisional meeting on a key initiative to help frame the organizational objective) may enhance staff engagement and alignment with organizational goals.  

(General Counsel and VP) The CEO could consider making more immediate concrete decisions on the specifics of how he would like to see new projects implemented, to make workflow more efficient and avoid misunderstandings.  
(VP Quality and Data Science) The CEO should continue to uphold the vision, the large initiatives that draw us closer to achieving our overall strategic goals
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) The CEO could consider his focus on perfection may be making it stressful for employees who produce Academy Express and Eye Net, perhaps others.
(VP IT) The CEO should continue to be collaborative, seeking answers from the executive team. Talk about his vision more with the staff at large so that they hear from the CEO where they fit in. The CEO’s introduction of the True North pillars is a big help but connecting that with what he is saying helps culturally.  
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I recommend providing directors, who have specific expertise in relevant topics, be given a platform for doing presentations (internal or external) which would enhance his current leadership style of collaboration. It would also be a good way for the Academy to identify talent for succession planning. 
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) I would suggest the CEO get the organization into alignment, improve the clarity of communication, develop a culture of performance improvement.  Currently there is a high degree of variability and lack of alignment.
(VP MEETINGS) The CEO could encourage more open discussion. Seek out other opinions to ensure he is getting the full story.
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I think if there was visible messaging from the CEO or Lawrence COO about the changes, challenges, and progress it would push everyone towards the common goals of the Academy.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) I strongly recommend that he maintain his leadership style with the suggestion that he lead in front of the COO so that it cuts through the translation the COO places on “what The CEO wants”. 

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I believe he that encourages discourse to drive decisions.  He is even-tempered and scholarly in most engagements—these support objective, lucid and evidence-based decision making at the organization level.  The CEO is not visionary or charismatic, both aren’t necessary but big audacious goals expressed clearly and with some measure of passion would probably help invigorate long-tenured staff who are complacent.  Please attempt to be more charismatic and visionary and circle with the departments once a month to check in with us. The CEO has a good sense of humor but in larger group settings being more charismatic and not so abstract would help.  It would help if he was more personal and charismatic.  
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I would recommend that the CEO be more direct and clearer in communicating his expectations and intended outcomes.  
(COO) I recommend the CEO have challenging and important conversations and not defer to others in his leadership team for him. He should be direct and clear when expectations are not met. I recommend the CEO work on his communication being shorter and more to the point for average listeners.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) The CEO should continue to consider new opportunities for Academy as he has already effectively demonstrated. Perhaps engage Trustees-at-Large with assignments. Consider opportunities for International Trustees to effectively contribute during in-person BOT meetings.
(VP EDUCATION) The CEO should be more direct and clearer in his communication. He is brilliant and a nice guy, staff need to see that. I’ve brought him to my division meeting and people appreciated hearing from him directly. When the CEO attends division meetings, it validates what the VP’s have been communicating and reinforces the leadership messages.  

Section 3: Decision-Making

Question 7: How does the CEO approach decision-making, especially in times of uncertainty or challenge?  

(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) I have always found Dr. McLeod to be thoughtful and not rush to decisions or positions on various issues. I think that is a positive trait that benefits the organization. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) The CEO uses the A-3 methodology as a tool for solving problems.   The A3 method has filtered down to us and is a useful tool to help people see what might be contributing to problems and to present information more succinctly with data. This tool is something like a one-off “go do this” and nothing really gets done with the tool. It seems to be the way we must present the issue.  Nothing really happens with the completion plan or tracking the tests to get there.  This is not a problem-solving tool; this is a presentation tool to the CEO.  People are territorial, and people aren’t deliberate on how we’re going to use this tool.  How can we be more intentional on how to use this.  
(Director State Government Affairs) The CEO is a consensus builder.

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I appreciate that the CEO takes a methodical approach to handle complex and challenging situations. He seeks input from various stakeholders and leverages data to make informed decisions. The CEO was instrumental in guiding the Academy and the Board to focus on the international market. This is a significant shift from past administrations. Dr. McLeod saw the stagnant financials, solicited feedback from stakeholders, reviewed the data and projections, and ultimately made the decision to further expand into the international market. Recommendation: Also, in response to evolving member/consumer preferences and needs, he championed a member-centric strategy and backed the initiative for an overhaul of the Academy’s infrastructure (digital footprint as well as member record management). This is a significant investment—in dollars and staff resources—to future proof and position the Academy for long-term success. In both examples, I appreciated Dr. McLeod’s willingness to take calculated risks and to lead the organizational changes. Recommendation: One potential improvement in the decision-making process may be enhancing transparency and communication throughout the decision-making process to ensure all stakeholders are adequately informed and engaged. At times not all the affected stakeholders receive the same communication. Some discussions and decisions are made in 1:1 or small group settings, and others learn of the decision through an intermediary. In the latter situation, it can be challenging to understand the rationale of the decision as well as the various factors considered before a decision is made.
(VP Quality and Data Science). The CEO is very systematic and thorough in his approach to decision-making, and careful to include different scenarios and perspectives, and invites input, as appropriate from staff and Board or other physician leaders. 
(VP IT) The CEO is logical, analytical and data-driven making decisions.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) The CEO analyzes the situation and solicits input from other Academy physician leaders and staff on how the Academy should address/respond. I think that engagement allows us to reach decisions that are well thought out in a timely fashion.
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) The CEO is very analytical, thoughtful and data driven. I see him approaching problem solving in a very methodical manner based on his background and knowing he be is a big fan of using the A3 process.
(VP MEETINGS) The CEO tends to be very cautious when uncertain. He doesn’t appear to want to make waves, which is not unusual for a new CEO. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) The CEO gathers facts and does targeted analysis. Then that is overlayed on the broader environment.

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) The CEO has a propensity to stay away from the challenging HR type issues and leave all of that to the COO.  The CEO waits until the very end before deciding anything in Exec Meetings.  He never makes anyone feel badly or puts anyone down.  Very respectful of his people.  All or most feedback comes from the COO saying that “The CEO said this or that” but not direct decision making or communication.  

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) The CEO takes care to get the full picture, acknowledge multiple sources, and deliberate. Direction thereafter is usually unwavering.
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I notice that the CEO does like to gather information, consider all sides, and confer with experts on major issues. 
(COO) The CEO is very scientific, wanting to understand all the data. This can be quantitative or qualitative/relational. He is highly skeptical. This can lead to being too focused on downside risk and not enough on innovation or new ideas.  Weakness: He’s very much about the downside, and what’s wrong before what’s right.  He’s not a booster and supporter and he doesn’t engage and inspire the group. Recommendation: Stephen should be telling me to ask for clarity in these ET meetings.  He should also be asking the “how would you do that” and staying with the detail.  When you are that precise it is paralyzing for people to try and get the detail and expectations.  Maybe you don’t talk about your ideas because it will derail the team.  Determine what’s a priority and make sure you aren’t derailing the organization.  Everything can’t be a 10 out of 10.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) The CEO has in mind the correct course of action and actively gains input from the appropriate physician and staff experts in various strategic areas to assess.  For example, BOT/COS and staff leaders in state and federal advocacy.
(VP EDUCATION) The CEO’s open approach to allowing the group to weigh in to arrive at the best solution is immensely helpful. His supportive comments to help people feel comfortable expressing their ideas are appreciated and allow for good discourse.  We are allowed to express our ideas and challenges but we’re not sure that he takes this information and shifts or changes his direction based on our input.  He explains his position as the right way to go.

Question 8: Can you provide examples of key decisions made under their leadership?
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) The pursuit of new Academy initiatives around innovation, pursuit and rethinking Eye-Care America, the growth of Eye-Celerator, new initiatives in the DC office, communications, etc. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) The only example was to proceed with the Parke Center, which is our main building, I'm not sure how this intersects with the True North Pillars.  I have no idea what decisions that he makes that are key.  It’s foreign to me and I’ve not seen him making big changes.  He is not transparent with the decisions he’s made. 
(Director State Government Affairs) One example is after seeking input with key Academy physician leaders, he set very clear parameters regarding the Academy’s support and partnership with a specific state ophthalmology society.  These parameters were conveyed very clearly to all parties, which ultimately helped the Academy staff manage the arrangement more effectively.

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The CEO championed a member-centric strategy and backed the initiative for an overhaul of the Academy’s infrastructure called the Digital Transformation Strategy.  This is a significant investment, in dollars and staff resources, to future proof and position the Academy for long-term success. In this example, the CEO’s is willing to take calculated risks and to lead the organizational changes.
(VP Quality and Data Science) An example is the CEO’s engagement and support of activities such as Digital Engagement Initiative to tie members closer to the Academy as a membership initiative, sustainability, DEIA and FQHCs, Innovation in Ophthalmology, tying Academy membership to a dividend for OMIC.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) A great example of his decision making is when the Academy’s Board of Trustees received a recommendation from several ophthalmic societies to establish an “advocacy fee” for members to help cover the costs of the Academy’s advocacy efforts. After a careful review by our CEO, he recommended that the Board approve an alternative course of action to increase member engagement in advocacy.  Another example is over the past 1-2 years we have had a particularly challenging situation with the leadership of one state society which was impacting the effectiveness of our advocacy in that state but could have also negatively impacted our ability to engage sufficiently in other states. He engaged with our state government affairs leaders and senior staff to devise a strategy to help bolster this state society while preserving our limited resources for other state advocacy campaigns.
(VP IT) The CEO leading the pursuit of a comprehensive digital engagement revamp.  The CEO indicating that it needed to be done and being willing to invest in doing it properly.
(VP MEETINGS) The CEO leading the digital engagement project is one. 
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) The CEO has directed the launch of the digital engagement project, the new CRM project, new research effort and the hiring of a key leader in that area with a reorganization of the Data and Quality Science area. a new all-academy event, large fundraising efforts for the Parke Center, ensuring that we are always clear on the science in terms of our communications vehicles, ensuring advocacy receives focus from communications, fundraising all with a full team hired in place. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) The CEO pursuing a compounding pharmacy, changes to the AMS model to generate positive results, evaluating the dues structure for international regions, looking at the foundation structure and what it could do around research funding. Changes to QDS to focus on more research work and related grants. 
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) The Roe vs. Wade reversal occurred during our summer board retreat and the CEO worked quickly to gather information to frame a discussion on the Academy’s response with the board. The board ultimately decided not to issue a statement, but Dr. McLeod presented all sides of the issue and let them take the lead on a final decision. 
(COO) The CEO approaching how to address challenges with the OMIC, Verana relationships, and financial and leadership challenges within AMS; how to address scope of practice legislation battles, particularly with the state society in California.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) An example is the CEO adding a ‘research’ component to Academy mission statement. Another example is the CEO active participation in testimony on Veterans Affairs (VA) issues. New international membership tiers/membership designation.
(VP EDUCATION) The CEO willingness to push for an expanded use of the social media Instagram account to highlight journal properties. Providing support for the use of a medical education company to follow a work-for-hire model that allowed the delivery of new content via educational grants that helped improve the Academy’s bottom line. 
Question 9: Please comment on what makes his behaviors least or more effective?
(VP Quality and Data Science) I think the inclusivity and the thoughtfulness in the CEO’s approach make his behavior more effective.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) The CEO includes other Academy leaders and the impact is that the physicians that they work most closely with are part of the decision-making process. This creates greater buy-in for when difficult decisions that could impact Academy staff have to be made, but I think it also helps them feel represented in the decision-making process.
(VP MEETINGS) I think not having all those involved in the room for decisions at times makes it difficult.  Of course, the CEO can always make whatever decision they want, but being that he is still relatively new, he should hear the history of why something is the way it is before making decisions about changing it.  
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) The CEO has an easy delivery when he communicates.  It makes the message resonate.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION The CEO is our public facing leader and I am proud of him when he speaks wherever he speaks, to members, to donors, to key stakeholders.  He is incredibly intelligent and eloquent.  He is a very fine gentleman, physician and scientist.  He can be more effective with a firm hand on the decisions that impact the Executive Team and staff overall.

(COO) Communicating his decisions and the direction he wants clearly, in very boiled-down terms that reach those executives with less subtle communication styles, would be the most helpful.

(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Actually provides opportunity for input / feedback from all BOT/COS members during BOT meetings prior to weighing in with ‘pre-determined’ solution  
(VP EDUCATION) Most: The open approach to allow others to weigh in empowers his staff and allows for a positive feedback loop to continue the necessary discourse to arrive at a good solution.  Least: If people are struggling to come to a decision, don’t let them flutter in the wind too long. Feel free to coach/encourage them to move forward. 

Question 10: What improvements, if any, could be made to the CEO’s decision-making process?
(General Counsel and VP) Recommendation: At the beginning of every Executive Team meeting, The CEO could take 3-4 minutes to give the entire Team update on key decisions he has made of which other ET members may not be aware.
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I would recommend for decision making is enhancing transparency and communication throughout all the milestones and decisions to ensure all stakeholders are adequately informed and engaged. At times not all the affected stakeholders receive the same communication. Some discussions and decisions are made in 1:1 or small group settings, and others learn of the decision through an intermediary. In the latter situation, it can be challenging to understand the rationale of the decision as well as the various factors considered before a decision is made.

(DIRECTOR OF COMM/MARKETING) He should talk to the VP leading an area before deciding about that area. For example, if making a brand decision like adding a new Instagram or X channel, he should talk to the VP who oversees the brand and social media to find out if they have any concerns and see if it fits into the existing agreed-upon strategy. Of course, he may decide to change the strategy but should at least have the convo.
(VP IT) Communicate more about how he is evaluating things when making decisions.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Looping in non-executive level employees into the decision-making process to understand how those decisions could impact their day-to-day would be an improvement.
(Director of Marketing) Recommend him to focus on being more strategic.
(DR -VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) Including all those involved to hear the background and any potential concerns because of the decision. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) He is off the charts smart.  I can’t add anything that might improve what he already does.

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- VP of Foundation In my experience Lawrence wants to decide as a gate keeper what goes to The CEO, and I/we are not privy to those conversations or the translation that happens after Lawrence takes our case to The CEO.  This is where I think The CEO could call any of us into his office for information to make decisions without Lawrence’s input.  I think it would help each of us to feel that we are empowered to make decisions for our staffs with his approval, and less about Lawrence as information gatekeeper.

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) After looking over the Academy’s communication and web assets and understanding the history and challenges with each, Dr. McLeod directed management to undertake a digital engagement strategy project to reimagine the website and communication/email channels. This is a major undertaking across all divisions and will disrupt major systems and processes. He enabled each VP to manage their own domains in the rollout and work with a vendor to help discover root causes and offer solutions. I appreciate that he learned about the website before asking for change, he took his time to understand it, please consider continuing this style. Please consider giving direct feedback after we’re in motion or executing projects to give us updates on how we’re doing.  

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Dr. McLeod has an impressive vocabulary and sometimes his written responses to questions can be a little confusing – not a straight “yes” or “no”. This has been improving and I have noticed that he is much better at providing clearer answers. As he has become more experienced in his role, his decision-making has improved and he needs less time to decide, I think this will continue as time goes on and his experience continues to grow.
(COO) He is an excellent decisionmaker, I would recommend that he consistently asks himself, “What is my blind spot here? What is MY bias?” and being fully open to the feedback would be helpful. He is relentlessly scientific but also privileges or discounts information in ways that he may not be conscious of.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) At times, could jump in on BOT discussion/debate and provide clarity, thoughts.
(VP EDUCATION) Don’t be afraid to admit a discussion is difficult and let people know that we can produce a solution. We/you don’t need to know everything. It might be difficult behind the scenes, but challenging conversations (usually) result in a better outcome. 

Section 4: Communication and Transparency

Question 11: How transparent and consistent is the CEO in communicating important information and decisions to the executive team and employees?  


(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) He is accessible to staff at various levels of the organization and our communications across Academy divisions has taken a significant step forward during his tenure. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT). CEO doesn’t communicate directly to the staff much. The COO sends messages to staff now that we have this role. This seems appropriate, but staff hear less from the CEO directly, except for presentations at All-Staff meetings.  We would like to hear more from the CEO. 
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I think Dr. McLeod is an engaged leader and very approachable in 1:1 and small group settings. He is an excellent active listener. It may be helpful for a broader group of emerging and new managers to hear about his experiences and challenges to build camaraderie and engagement, and for him to hear about pain points among the different groups of personnel.   I don’t know what information he is is sharing vs. acting.  He emails me directly but doesn’t give direction on what I should do with this.  There are also side conversations where decisions are made without communication about them.   Not much clarity around communication preferences or styles.  Recommendation: verbal conversation we could have?   Academy culture is not cohesive.
(VP Quality and Data Science) He is quite transparent and consistent in communicating information and decisions.  
(VP IT) His communication and transparency generally is good however it can be variable. For example, with the digital engagement effort, we went through a few iterations of who was going to head up the project, changing the leader(s). The back-and-forth about who was spearheading was very unusual and confusing.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) I feel that the CEO is extremely transparent and consistent in how he shares information and decisions. He provides plenty of opportunity for questions and input from the executive team and other Academy employees.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Not consistent or transparent. The non-executive level employees do not find out about the decisions until they are already final or close to it. For example, I wasn’t asked for input on a project until the idea was already off the ground. This project, as currently described, would significantly affect my day-to-day. Several meetings had already happened, and I had to catch up to grasp what was trying to be done. I feel like I could have provided valuable insight and we could be further along with the project by now.  We could have been much farther along if we were looped in much earlier.  This is what causes inefficiencies.  This is what slows the organization down.  There were many issues that were not known to the Executives before we started this.  
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) There are too many layers and silohs with communication.  There is no one streamlined message updating on performance, reinforcing progress, pointing to our goals.  Everyone is working on their own.  
(VP MEETINGS) There is not a lot of direct communication from the CEO about major decisions. It mostly comes from the COO. And it can be difficult to discern what is the CEO’s decision and what is the COO’s decision. It’s often touted as the CEO’s decision, but then when following up with the CEO, it appears that something got lost in translation as he is not as concerned about “X” as the COO made it appear
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) He is very consistent in his messaging. And from my view as transparent as he can be.  There is always information that shouldn’t be shared.  I think he does a good job treading that task. He communicates in person mostly at parties and holiday staff parties and the annual meeting, so it’s a few degrees of separation from me or my role.  I don’t see Dr. McLeod communicating on email or other vehicles.  
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- VP of Foundation See above.  (This was copied in the above answer) In my experience Lawrence wants to decide as a gate keeper what goes to The CEO, and I/we are not privy to those conversations or the translation that happens after Lawrence takes our case to The CEO.  This is where I think The CEO could call any of us into his office for information to make decisions without Lawrence’s input.  I think it would help each of us to feel that we are empowered to make decisions for our staffs with his approval, and less about Lawrence as information gatekeeper.  Not a lot of communication or direction or information about the path and direction we’re supposed to be headed. He’s not drilling down into the projects.  I would like to hear from him what the real priorities are, or is everything a priority?  We can tell that advocacy is the biggest priority because we make meaning out of language and conversations and because that’s where the Executives are spending their time in meetings.  We aren’t sure if this is right.  The whole priorities are being shifted but no one talks about it publicly. 

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I feel he is mostly transparent and clear about decisions. I don’t think staff are regularly updated on his vision or how executive management is structured to enforce or establish its own vision either. “Performance” has not be clearly defined—we get some updates (not frequent enough) on the financial state of the organization. My recommendation is that he’s a better communicator with the details of other KPIs (besides revenue) that matter. I think most VPs trickle this down and don’t necessarily hear and share the same message to their managers and staff.
(DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM OF THE EYE) The CEO consistently uses the all-staff meetings as a chance to talk to staff. I believe every employee looks forward to his updates as it is a glimpse into what is going on and his priorities. It is rare to get other communications from him. I think the last all staff email The CEO wrote was in June 2023 to say something about a supreme court decision. In general, AAO leadership relies on a trickle-down method of communication where the Vice Presidents are expected to verbally share what is happening to their teams. If there is email communication from the C-level, it almost always comes from Lawrence Mendenhall. Lawrence does come across as being transparent and open, which I assume is something The CEO approves of and encourages him to be with us.
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I feel as though he is transparent and doesn’t intentionally keep things from staff, but I think he could be better at communicating information/decisions to staff who may be impacted more quickly so they have more time to respond if actions are needed.  
(COO) He is extremely transparent. He hides very little in terms of the Academy’s strategy, direction and developments, which is a strength and also a sign of his integrity. It also can result in information overload for executive team members who are over-focused on “But what does he want me to DO next? How will I be judged?”  Recommendation: It’s helpful to remember that overloading with information or communication in one setting can actually decrease the effectiveness of communication. 
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS): Consistently takes part in weekly Exec Team meetings – communicates outcomes of external meetings in which he has participated; etc. Broader staff may like to hear ‘more’ from him - i.e. occasional ‘all staff’ email with update on program/issue/challenge/opportunity, etc.  
(VP EDUCATION) He is transparent on multiple items, but some items aren’t completely clear to some, such as with the transition with the QDS VP.   Recommend: Stephen said it’s not his style to advocate for himself on social meeting.  The CEO needs to figure out a way to have someone write for him, staying himself, but getting the name of AAO out there.  The CEO could also walk around the office and get to know his teams, connect.  He needs to be more of a facilitator and sometimes there is too much discussion and we’re at a loss, come back to refocus the group.  If we don’t know the answer, it’s okay.   Example: The need QDS VP is from UCSD and needs to get tenured and can’t say anything to put this person in jeopardy.  He needs to explain why this transition won’t be coming on board, what the elements are.  Make sure you are clear on the people that need-to-know information even if confidential, so you aren’t creating more problems.  Innovation initiative:  Stephen is putting all the quality initiatives with one person; however, this person is not a communicator at all, there is quite a bit of confusion.  
(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) I would say that there are two internal newsletters that come out regularly through the year that I don’t have a chance to read, perhaps they have more information about the success stories of other departments, I haven’t seen it yet.  
Question 12: Do you feel adequately informed about the company’s direction and performance?

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
No
Somewhat:  
Somewhat
No
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes

Question 13: How effective are his existing communication structures?

(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) All aspects of his communication is effective and he has done a terrific job with individual senior and mid-level staff. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT). Emails and communication to staff are few. What filters down to me are the discussions with the VP and those seem very effective. We can act on this direction.  The COO does all the communication, the CEO doesn’t do this.  The COO tries to interpret Dr. McLeod, and there are pros and cons with that.  We have had misunderstandings around what the CEO really wants.  An example is experimenting with new grant funding activities (gating) and through that process I pitched. A couple of different projects, the first one was lukewarm and the second one because of the way I presented it, no one really knew what I was talking about.  Dale and I had a separate meeting with the VP Quality, Director of Professional Development and VP of Education.  It was the most depressing YES, I’ve ever received.  I heard no approval, but my VP did hear it – so it was very confusing.  Mixed messages.
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE). Because of my Vp position I have adequate information about the organizational direction and performance.  I think I only have this information because of the nature of my position, there is a dilution of information to the broader organization.  How can we tap into these types of opportunities or the process of this to be more impactful for everyone since Dr. McLeod only has a finite amount of time?

(VP Quality and Data Science) Emails, 1x1’s and meetings are very effective.

(Director of Comm/Marketing) People are frustrated that he relies on Lawrence to filter all information to/from him. This adds a layer of “telephone” into communications and Lawrence often doesn’t translate The CEO’s wishes or opinions correctly.
(Director of Public Relations) The CEO seems to relegate much of the general communication to the COO. 
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) I think the existing structures work very well and I feel that I have plenty of opportunities to engage with him to get clarifications on policies or solicit his input on issues/policies.  I also like how he engages with the directors in my division on a regular basis. I feel like the opportunity for these 1x1 conversations with our CEO makes them feel like they have input into our policy/decision-making process. Staff outside of the Executive Team haven’t always had that opportunity.
(VP IT) My interactions with him are primarily at our executive team meetings. He is effective in this setting. Speaking for myself, it would be great to meet with him one-on-one once every four or six months. 
(DR- MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) As noted above, he is very responsive on email and seems like his preferred method of communication.  I would say that his 1x1’s are as effective as other Academy CEOs.  I’m not sure that the executive team meetings are as effective as they have been in the past as there seems to be a desire to limit discussion.  When getting into the details of something, the COO will quickly step in to say that we’ll take it offline and bring a resolution back to the CEO.  I’m not sure if this comes from the COO wanting to be the funnel or the CEO not wanting to be get involved in the details. However, sometimes the CEO needs to hear the details, especially one that has only been in the position for two years.  He is fine working by email which is great given his schedule.  He is very responsive on email. The only problem with email is that it can be difficult to fully explain an issue, but it seems to be working. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I feel he is very effective with me. I don’t always see results from his communications with others. I can’t say if this is due to the structure of the communications. I don’t know who The CEO has 1x1s with. I find him to be very prompt in getting back to me via email.  I’ve never asked for a meeting outside of regularly schedules ones.  I have not seen any of the VP’s change or improve regardless of his communication.  I’m not sure why.   
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I find that he is very responsive to my communications and is always available when I need him. 
(GENERAL COUNSEL AND VP)  I think Stephen is an effective group leader, and his 1:1 meeting are especially useful, as he will provide a deep dive on his ideas. His communication style is similar in emails. In team meetings, I believe it is a priority for him to provide everyone a chance to voice their opinion. However, it might be useful in such settings for him to ultimately give more guidance after he has decided on the approach the Academy should take. 
(COO) In my experience, he is highly effective in 1-1 settings, clear in emails (although messages can be lost in long text), and sometimes misunderstood in meetings, depending on the audience. He is a nuanced thinker and speaker, whose style works better for some than others (which is no criticism of him, just an observation). Recommendation: Continue to refine/boil down his messages in meetings. Some experience meetings with him like a seminar class where there was a discussion but not a specific path after. Also, he is brilliant and can wing any conversation but for some, they can miss his message when he is not intentional. Ask, “What do I want the team to remember/do after what I’ve said? Is that clear to them?” If this shift is too challenging, it would be helpful for him to just continue to be patient if the more nuanced communication doesn’t yield the result he wants, even if it feels like he was clear.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) I very much appreciate the opportunity to meet with the CEO given his extremely busy schedule.
(VP EDUCATION) His emails etiquette is great. Always appreciate his supportive and positive feedback. I communicate to my own team every 4 months through a newsletter.  Education department has a great overview that Dale produces 3x per year.  Excellent visual but this is not used through the organization.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) 1x1’s are fantastic.  

Question 14: Please comment on what behaviors or structures/systems of working make him least or more effective?
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I have limited exposure to Dr. McLeod as I am relatively new to my role. I think there is uncertainty among staff regarding his preferred communication format (delineating between email and face-to-face meetings) and appropriate context for each. Without clear guidance on communication preferences
(VP Quality and Data Science) He is forthcoming in discussions and loves to be engaged in discussion and very open to having different points of view to consider.  This is a more academic perspective, which is different than the traditional relationship we have had at the Academy with our CEO.  With prior CEOs, it has been a more hierarchical relationship, and we had some independence, but there was less dialogue and discussion, and more of directives and specific actions to be implemented by the executive team.  I think that this is a shift. 
(Director of Comm/Marketing) In meetings, his verbal communication is not direct, and it can be hard to decipher the key points.  His sentence structure is complex/meandering and it’s sometimes hard to follow exactly what he’s saying.  Presenting to large groups like at the all-staff meetings, his presentation style seems low energy.  On the positive side, he asks great questions, and his written communications are very clear.
(VP IT) The CEO has a sharp mind, and you can see that he is thinking ahead on several fronts. It is recommended that he expresses and is clear about what he wants (in a group setting) as needed and that we are tracking with him more, it’s not clear and we often leave not knowing what to do next.  
(VP MEETINGS) It might be good to have a coach to help him project as a more confident speaker. He does well speaking at professional meetings, but he is not projecting the same image to the staff.  For example, at the last all staff meeting, he stood sidewise to the podium with his legs and arms crossed. He didn’t always speak into the microphone and then rambled.  I heard from staff later that they didn’t really understand what he was trying to say.  It might be better for someone to make him some slides that will focus his talk or if he doesn’t have a lot to say, just don’t speak.  The CEO doesn’t always have to say something. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) He’s a great active listener and asks very thoughtful follow-up questions. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - I like the straightforward direction I hear from him. I’m not sure everyone else hears his messaging.

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He can be a bit verbose and sometimes it is hard to know exactly what his position is on something. I also think that while he may seem “fine” with something that didn’t go as planned, he may be very unhappy but just doesn’t say anything.

(COO) He is highly detailed and nuanced, which is a gift and a barrier for some listeners. Some are often focused on “what’s in it for me” or how the discussion affects what they should be doing, rather than seeing the direct value in engaging in the conversation, which is a strength of his. It’s helpful to remember that overloading with information or communication in one setting can decrease the effectiveness of communication

(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Most effective:  gains input / listens. Least effective:  not being directive.
(DALE FAJARDO –VP EDUCATION) Most: Willingness to have open discussions. Least: Focus on providing more updates on initiatives under internal consideration. Sometimes the group is wondering about next steps. 

Question 15: What could he do to improve or sustain his communication and transparency?

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I appreciate Dr. McLeod’s communication style, particularly during our 1:1 meetings. These sessions are invaluable opportunities for me to obtain insights, brainstorm ideas, and gain a better understanding of his vision and strategic direction.
(VP Quality and Data Science) I think that there might be some hesitancy for him to be more direct and explicit if he had expected individuals to take more initiative or be more accountable for an outcome.  Maybe for Executive Team members, there should be a more explicit description of expectations and preparations for meetings and communications.  
(Director of Comm/Marketing) Periodic 1-1s with the VPs who report to Lawrence, so they also have a chance to speak directly with The CEO. He could use some coaching to be a more engaging and energetic speaker to large groups.
(VP IT) With the executive team, periodically check on things that he has asked the COO to direct. There is a lack of alignment and clarity between what he wants and what has been communicated via the COO.  The COO is attempting to interpret what the CEO wants and often misses his intention.  While not negating the COO’s role, it is beneficial to hear directly from the CEO at the executive level, whether you are one of his direct reports or not.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Be more direct to the point, and clear when communicating. Sometimes it takes a while to clarify and confirm what he’s saying and what really needs to happen. 
(Director of Marketing) If he could better influence others within the organization to have more transparency and consistency with communicating information and decisions to staff working upstream, midstream, and downstream toward the same long-term objectives.
(VP MEETINGS) I think more direct communication with the executive team would be more effective. Too much gets lost in translation. He should also consider at least a monthly 1x1 with VPs who do not report to him so he can hear directly what their issues are. It would cut down a lot on the back and forth.

(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) – I think he could be more direct in certain situations.  I feel I get the messaging and that there is transparency. However, I’m not sure that is universally felt across the executive team.

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Provide clear and concise answers and make sure he communicates his expectations and that they are understood to avoid any problems later.

(COO) Continue to refine/boil down his messages in meetings. Some experience meetings with him like a seminar class where there was a discussion but not a specific path after. Also, he is brilliant and can wing any conversation but for some, they can miss his message when he is not intentional. Ask, “What do I want the team to remember/do after what I’ve said? Is that clear to them?” If this shift is too challenging, it would be helpful for him to just continue to be patient if the more nuanced communication doesn’t yield the result he wants, even if it feels like he was clear. Dr. McLeod CEO level of perfectionism is demotivating the team.  Everything cannot be a 10 on a 10 scale of perfect.  Weakness: If you are close enough to him, you’ll get strong negative feedback.  Your wrong and I’m right. If you aren’t close to him, he won’t engage in holding people accountable. He’s got a a difficult situation, he will typically make the COO handle all the bad news.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Ensure that all staff / physician leaders are aligned on an outcome – communicate the substance and reasoning behind his decisions so everyone can get behind his decisions 
(VP EDUCATION) Don’t be afraid to “overcommunicate.” I expect this will help the group understand what’s going on inside his thought processes.  Explain the “why” (of why we’re doing something) and how it ties to our mission to protect sight and empower lives.
(GENERAL COUNSEL AND VP) Recommendation: At the beginning of every Executive Team meeting, Stephen could take 3-4 minutes to give the entire Team update on key decisions he has made of which other ET members may not be aware.

Section 5: Collaboration and Team Dynamics

Question 16: How does the CEO foster collaboration and teamwork within the executive team and across departments?  
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) I’m not sure really.  I don’t think he’s directing the VP team, but I hear we do have cross-divisional projects, so people must work together.  Some people work well, and other people are territorial, and they don’t work together.   You see gaps in this process based on direction, resource gaps and prioritization issues. 
(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) I think he promotes more discussion of ideas and how various programs or actions will impact the organization. Communication and teamwork across divisions (and between SF and DC office) has been much better during his tenure at CEO. He has eliminated many of the silos of information and I think it is beneficial to senior staff but also those at lower ends of organizational hierarchy. 

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The Academy has historically operated within silos, with departmental, hierarchical, and functional boundaries often impeding the flow of information and impeding collaboration. This has resulted in a reluctance among staff to share information, driven by concerns about perceived value and status within the organization.  Silos are People doing their own work without sharing information. Everyone working towards their own goals.  Recommend:  Having shared goals and bonuses.   It’s the buy-in and understanding of what this means.
(VP Quality and Data Science) He fosters discussion and a variety of different perspectives.  He models inclusion, and talks about not working in silos, and working across divisions.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) This is one of his strengths.  Since Dr McLeod has become CEO, I feel like there has been a real effort to foster cross-division collaborations at all levels. As a result, I have a much better understanding of other parts of the Academy that I don’t normally work closely with.  I think the adoption of our true north principles have also provided greater alignment of our overall strategic goals across-divisions within the Academy.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Multidepartment projects, like the FQHC initiative and MYF, foster collaboration and teamwork across leaders and their departments

(Director of Marketing) There have been some recent improvements with collaboration among departments and divisions, but it has been done as one-offs and hasn’t been a cohesive or coordinated process.  
(VP MEETINGS) I think he wants to foster collaboration.  I think he is still learning who is responsible for what. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - He is very good at two-way conversations.  He listens and asks and asks and listens. He is not combative. He has a cerebral approach which fosters communication and collaboration. He could be more impactful if he would set clear directions, accountabilities, and deadlines with progress updates along the way.  

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- VP of Foundation The CEO has done a great job in breaking down the silos and there is more to do in this area. But as he has brought us forward through huge cross divisional projects, the teamwork has improved.  It really is important that he has done this and I think the Academy’s work product will improve as a result.

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I can’t speak to his work with executive management. For his support of other staff and to improve dynamics, I’d encourage he float through the office more often and engage directly. I am in the office 3-4 days a week and have never seem him except when I go up to his office (I think that’s happened twice). Many staff remain reluctant to get back to the office and his presence felt within the building might help draw them back if he were more present.  I think it would benefit his knowledge as well.  
(DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM OF THE EYE) The two direct emails I received from The CEO this year were to ask for help from a group of staff members. In these emails I found him to be extremely thoughtful. He seemed to know each person’s role and knowledge base – asking individuals for specific information. From my experience, it is very rare that a CEO has a grasp on what each staff member does and what knowledge they have access to. In addition, The CEO was asking for feedback on something he wrote and I was happy to find him receptive to edits from staff at all levels.     
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He is keen on cross-divisional collaboration and has a very hands-off approach during meetings which encourages the VP’s to take the lead in discussions and planning. Unfortunately, I’m not sure the VP’s always love the cross-divisional projects which can be a struggle when it comes down to dividing the actual work (example: the Academy party being planned for this year). 
(COO) The CEO is very positive but as an introvert, he sometimes visibly seems to be uncomfortable in team settings for more than a few minutes. He does message, although too indirectly for many, that he expects the leadership to collaborate. He does not call out negative team dynamics or failures to work across departments, which he largely leaves to Lawrence.  Recommendation: At staff engagements he needs to reach out and mingle with staff and engage even if it’s uncomfortable.   When he says “work together” – he doesn’t say how.  He needs to learn how to hold people accountable.  He never says, “I expect you all to work together”.  For instance, if someone comes to him, he should be saying it’s my expectation that you’ve already worked with the SME department.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS): During Executive Team meetings, consistently encourages cross-divisional efforts and increased collaboration.
(VP EDUCATION) He allows for open discourse during our ET meetings and encourages directors to join the ET meetings when the respective VP is away. Some VPs may be slow on the uptake of this...It’ll take time.   There is an expectation that Directors are supposed to attend the Executive Team meetings when a VP is absent to help grow and develop staff, however many VP’s are not on board or feel that their Directors would not benefit from this engagement.  It’s not been set as an accountability.  
(GENERAL COUNSEL AND VP) If the CEO can make it, he’s at the Executive Team Meetings.  He focuses on breaking down silos, however we need more project specifics.  

Question 17: Please comment on what behaviors of working make him least or more effective?
(VP Quality and Data Science) He is very appreciative and compliments everyone on their work and efforts.  That is very affirming to people in terms of their accomplishments.  
(VP IT) Listening to what is being said and engaging in the conversation toward a solution make him more effective
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) His collaboration is more effective and helpful in making sure we are fully considering the potential impact a policy could have on our membership or be better prepared for potential blowback from a decision that may not be popular with parts of our membership.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Dr. McLeod has a knack for thinking creatively and I really appreciate hearing his perspective coming from a large academic center.
(VP MEETINGS) I think he could be more effective if he relied more on the entire executive team and engaged them directly in discussions. Everyone has a unique wealth of knowledge that would be beneficial to a relatively new CEO. The Academy is a complex organization and will take years to learn all the details. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - As mentioned, his approach and demeanor to everything fosters communication.
(COO) His commitment to attending executive and staff events is much appreciated. 
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Most effective:  Actively seeks staff and physician input. Considers and respectful of ALL input.
(VP EDUCATION) Open communication that is encouraged from the top has allowed for a collaborative environment. Recommendation: Do not shoot down an idea too quickly or be critical of an idea by correcting an individual on the spot as they’re trying to formulate an idea.  It is also important to say that asking for clarity is not part of our culture when a Physician is speaking.
  
Question 18: What could he do to improve or sustain current collaboration or other dynamics?

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) I believe Dr. McLeod is cognizant of this entrenched issue and has taken steps to foster better collaboration through the formation of cross-divisional teams co-led by different members of the executive team. To further facilitate this cultural shift and to mitigate power dynamics within a team.  Dr. McLeod can play an important role to actively solicit input from all team members, regardless of their role or tenure. He can create opportunities for open dialogue and exchange of ideas in team meetings. Often times the conversations in the executive team meeting is dominated by one or two seasoned and more vocal executives.  There have been situations where it was extremely challenging to express my opinion because there is no “in” until the topic has ended or the meeting ran out of time.  Question: I wonder why others don’t speak up?  When he speaks and is not clear on direction, why doesn’t anyone stop the train and ask for clarity? In 1x1 I can get more clarity, but in groups he pontificates and 1x1’s there is more honestly and candid.   With ET – there is conversations but it’s a bigger group than before and we don’t get a lot done.  Facilitator so that other voices are heard.   Needs a facilitator should give each person 3 minutes, no more.  Give air space for everyone. Dr. McLeod can play an important role to actively solicit input from all team members, regardless of their role or tenure.
(VP Quality and Data Science) Activities outside the regular work environment such as; lunches, retreat which was done the first year of his being CEO.  
(VP IT) I recommend that he is confirming explicit directions: On some occasions, he has stated what he wants throughout a conversation, leaving it to those listening to figure out what he wants.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Continue to identify opportunities for divisions to work collectively towards a clearly articulated goal. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Being physically separated from the headquarters building can make off-site employees feel left out. Simple changes like making sure meetings/trainings aren’t scheduled before or after hours for those employees can go a long way in making them feel part of the team. For anything that is provided for the SF office (e.g. lunches, parties, contests, volunteer opportunities), the same should be attempted for satellite employees.
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) To make significant improvements, it could be beneficial to take a more holistic approach and do an analysis of how teams operate in terms of workflows and look at what processes/standards could be changed to increase collaboration and team dynamics.
(VP MEETINGS) Ensure that everyone can be heard and that everyone is being treated in a respectful, professional manner.  
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Keep doing what he is doing. If he were to change anything I would advise to be more direct when possible.

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- The CEO fosters collaboration by his leadership style and his “can do” attitude.  He encourages us to lean into our strengths and he understands what those strengths are across the team.  Those who aren’t willing or able to take on new challenges or ways of thinking are less likely to succeed under his leadership which is understandable when you are The CEO, and you want to drive towards big bold initiatives.  We had a workshop at Cavallo Point in his first year and The CEO’s leadership at that workshop was inspiring. We left there feeling that there were actionable steps to improve our work and change the ways we do our business.  I’d love to see another executive team workshop.  He has a true connection to the board who feel good about his leadership. He excels in running the board meetings. He also deals with the challenges presented by board members in a very diplomatic way and from my vantage, solves the problems as they come up with grace and intellect.  He also has a way of making his executive team feel good about their work product and wins. He often calls out the VPs for their work after a special event/conference, or even on the day-to-day business.    

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Communicate his expectations clearly and help define the roles he sees for the various participants in cross-divisional projects to avoid turf issues and unbalanced workloads.
(COO) Engaging with a broader spectrum of the team at functions would help inspire them to greater collaboration and a better dynamic. Being clearer about his expectation for how the executive team should collaborate and engage positively with each other would also help him be more effective. Be clearer that everyone must demonstrate Academy values, even where it is uncomfortable to be direct. 
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Continue to push for opportunities to collaborate cross divisionally.
(VP EDUCATION) Don’t be afraid to be a positive coach and encourage folks to speak their mind.

Section 6: Accountability and Performance Management

Question 19: How does the CEO support the professional development and well-being of employees?

(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS) He pushes staff to find new opportunities and make contributions to the broader organization. In collaboration with Lawrence Mendenhall, I think there is an emphasis on employee well-being and satisfaction and less burnout from the staff as a result. 
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) He has supported DEI programming and does not openly discourage professional development for staff.  
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The Academy has established programs to support professional development and organizational engagement since Dr. McLeod assumed the CEO position. Initiatives include more structured cross-functional project teams, offering professional coaching for managers, and implementing succession planning.  The Academy also recognizes staff for their contributions through bonuses, public acknowledgment of achievements, and expressions of gratitude from the executive office. More staff are working much longer hours and some even on weekends due to heavy workloads. Conversely, there are also staff that are at 50-60% capacity. As the Academy evolves to meet the demands of its membership, this presents a good opportunity to evaluate each department/division’s deliverables, impact/contribution to the organization and workload. Leveraging new technology to improve efficiency and recalibrating staffing resources across divisions, if applicable, can promote greater equity and accountability.
(VP Quality and Data Science) He supports continued development, educational meetings and well-being of employees. 
(Director of Public Relations) I’m unsure if it was his decision to have managers take equity and inclusion training, but it was helpful, suggestive of a desire to create a safe and trusting environment where people feel comfortable expressing their ideas and opinions. Anything he and others in the executive team can do to foster such an environment would be beneficial.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Whenever I have approached him about speaking opportunities for myself or members of my team, he been very supportive of allowing us to pursue those opportunities. He has also been supportive of allowing staff to participate in meetings, even when travel may be involved. Being able to work on their presentation skills is helpful for building their confidence and makes them feel valued. Also, because I uniquely can directly engage with the CEO is also helpful for the professional development of my division’s directors.  The CEO also does a good job of recognizing staff for high performance, and I think that is appreciated.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I feel like most of this comes from my manager or HR, so I’ve not seen anything come from the CEO. The most prominent example that comes to mind is summer early release. I try to take advantage of this, but unfortunately due to my workload I’m not able to fully participate.  
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) I think Dr. McLeod is leading by example by soliciting 360-degree assessment of his performance. We need to do more for staff for both things.
(VP MEETINGS) Yes but I can’t think of anything from him at this point. Again, it’s also difficult to determine what comes from the COO vs. CEO.  We often only receive the decision, so it is not always clear.
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - He is very open to employee wellness through various programs. He also supports continued education and career development. He has approved leadership coaching, holidays, time off, yoga class.  There is one caveat that all these programs were here before he got here, he hasn’t done anything that I’m aware of other than support what is already in place. 
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) The CEO is very encouraging of employees taking professional development courses and the Academy provides opportunities for those courses.  He is enthusiastic about all-staff events and participates, whether it is a ping-pong tournament or all staff meeting.  Through the Director of People, he provides for the employees to work remotely and to encourage work-life balance in many ways from post-Christmas week off, to summer Fridays to bonuses and excellent health care and more, staying abreast of the best workplace practices and keeping the Academy a great place to work.  We have never had a conversation about doing anything different. 

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) The CEO seems to be process-oriented and appreciates clear evidence, documentation, and deliberation. I believe through his modeling of process improvement and attention to detail, we are actively focused on quality improvement and defending our work processes and output. I haven’t witnessed his support of leadership or professional development.  When he hears about a problem, he wants an A3 model.  He likes undertaking a scientific approach to problems.  He wants to survey people and dig into data before change.  There is a significant disconnect between what he says and how it gets interpreted because he’s so abstract.  It would be great to hear from him directly.  
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) The Academy has generous benefits for employees and offers lots of perks such as summer hours to ensure well-being. He encourages learning and appears to be supportive of professional development, but I have not interacted with him directly on this issue so I’m not sure.   
(COO) He is very kind and supportive of professional development activities. One challenge is the high bar he sets for himself. He is extremely hard-working and sets very high standards for himself, which also creates a high bar for other executives. So, while the Academy is trying to support physicians to avoid burnout, we are not as focused on executives and team well-being.  Recommendation:  He shouldn’t be sending emails other than to the COO on weekends, and should role model balance and well-being.  
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Regularly provides an opportunity to meet with him; willingly answers questions. Responds positively via email on successful outcomes, etc.
(VP EDUCATION) I’ve observed very positive feedback and support of folks to try new professional development opportunities, which is wonderful!
(GENERAL COUNSEL AND VP) If there is any training, we are on our own, he does encourage continuous learning.  The COO has way more visibility to staff than the CEO does.  There should be a “from the desk of the CEO” regularly to create engagement and visibility, this doesn’t really exist now.  

Question 19a: How are your professional development activities tied to the performance of the organization or your well-being?

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) We are now having conversations about how to replace positions that are being vacated, this is a first and welcomed.  The Academy also recognizes staff for their contributions through bonuses, public acknowledgment of achievements, and expressions of gratitude from the executive office.  However, there is a lack of clarity among staff regarding the criteria for earning a spot bonus, as this is not publicly shared even among the executive team. The lack of transparency and understanding contributes to animosity among departments and individual team members when news of spot bonuses is mentioned in casual watercooler conversations.  Workload inequity.  This is a COO thing, he needs to call attention to the inefficiency within each of the divisions to build accountability culture.  
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I was surprised to find out when I joined this company that there was no formal people manager training course at all.  When I had to let an employee go, I was given a social media link and asked to watch a video.  Consequently, much of what I’ve learned, even as a new manager, has been through other people or my Manager.  I think the CEO has influence to make this a bigger priority.  This and other inequity issues has been difficult for me and I’m hoping the organization will pay attention to real performance development for leaders. We don’t have any support in training to do our jobs, yet we are being asked to be more efficient and effective.  
(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) I just did have my performance evaluation and I know the main primary function of my role is to protect the standards of high quality eyecare that would establish. I was graded at exceeding expectations because I have done a great job of doing this, this year.   Plus I improved financial strength part of this. Advocacy efforts are also successful and that is part of my key role.  It’s clear what I do affects the True North Pillars.   An example of our professional development is that there is an organization called Public Affairs Council, builds best practices for lobbying industry.  We go to the seminars that they put on to get better at our skills.    Advocacy is really Lobbyist.  We learn new ways to use these seminars to learn best practices.  These seminars are Gold Standards.  
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) I really have no example or can’t see what he is doing to professional development for us.  I’ve been told I must cut $100,000 from my budget for professional development.  I only have $4,000 for professional development for the growth of our people.  This is not enough.  The organization is not in great shape, so they are cutting expenses.  Lawrence has been clear that the annual meeting is not making enough money to support the Academy the way it has in the past.   This helps when COO is transparent and so is Dale, so it really encourages driving towards the strategy of generating more revenue.  I’ve been really surprised that it’s not widely communicated beyond the directors.  

Question 20: Can you provide examples of initiatives or programs to promote employee leadership development and organizational engagement?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) HR runs many webinars, but it is unclear whether this is at the CEO’s direction or the COO’s. Perhaps if he were to communicate his interest in these, his role in them would be clearer. 
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Coaching for Managers and succession planning.  Lastly, Dr. McLeod and many on the executive teamwork at night and during the weekend. While it is communicated to teams that they are not expected to work after hours and during vacation, it will be beneficial if top leaders can lead by example to disconnect from work during off-hours and vacation (e.g., not send emails to others after hours, limit and ideally disconnect from communicating with staff while on vacation). It assures staff that disconnecting completely from the Academy is the expected and encouraged norm. 
(VP Quality and Data Science) Juneteenth, diversity and inclusion training, hiring of 2 directors for Vice Presidents.
(Director of Public Relations) This 360-feedback exercise is a good example of leading by example and holding himself accountable first. Many of us have goals that have not been updated for a long time. The current goals process is onerous, and many employees don’t see the benefit. It appears that many of the VPs haven’t prioritized performance management either. Anything he could do that encourages a less burdensome, more continuous cycle of goal setting/assessing/providing feedback would be helpful.
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) When an Executive Team member can’t attend our weekly meetings, we have been sending one of directors to the meeting. This gives them an opportunity to hear about some of the initiatives that may be taking place in the Academy that don’t directly involve our division. It also gives them a better understanding of the Academy’s decision-making processes and makes them feel more connected to the Academy.  Some of the recent leadership training programs, particularly those on trying to have a more inclusive workplace, have been extremely helpful.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) None that I can think of.  When I joined the company, I was surprised to find that we have infrequent manager trainings on things like bias, but I feel more could be done to support leadership development for directors. I was surprised when I joined the company that there was no formal people manager training course. When I had to let an employee go, I was given a link to a LinkedIn training video. Consequently, much of what I’ve learned in terms of managing employees has been learned from my own Manager.  
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) Having leadership coaching sessions has been beneficial. We need more organizational engagement and alignment with how we do things.
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - I can’t point to any new programs, but he has made it clear he is in favor of the programs we do have.  

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION)- VP of Foundation There are many programs which promote leadership at the Academy if the staff wants to take advantage of them, from committees that are formed to work with volunteerism, staff parties, all staff organizing committee, writing for the internal newsletter, being a buddy for a new hire, and encouraging staff to ask managers when they want to start a new program. Lawrence has been instrumental in solving for engagement across a diverse workforce, with his diversity, equity and inclusion workshops, and his writings to staff to shout out about various accomplishments.  And all of this makes people feel good, acknowledged, and then work hard for the good of the organization which at the Academy, all take pride in.

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I don’t know of any programs that enhance leadership development that he’s created or support from him around this. 
(COO) He has been very supportive of the work of HR in terms of more frequent all staff meetings, specific diversity initiatives (an Academy-wide Juneteenth holiday and other events), improved benefits and working conditions (expanded remote work, better 401k program, vision benefits), and coaching for key leaders (not just in performance management situations), just as some examples.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Encourages staff participation in external meetings – U.S.-based and international.
(VP EDUCATION) Allowing us to do volunteer work to develop our leadership skills and best practices that we can bring back to the Academy.

Question 21: Please comment on what behaviors or structures/systems of working make him least or more effective?  

(VP Quality and Data Science) He is very hard working and responds to every email and request. 
(BW- DIRECTOR OF PROF. CONTINUING DEVELOPMENT) The strategies are not aligned with the A-3 format, but the DEI initiative has been HR developed and felt it was a check-the-box activity, which is the worst way to learn. I would recommend that he highly suggest we focus on using these funds to do these workshops and get coaching for this.  We have a professional goal earmarked and an IDP to say what we worked on, but there is no intention on how to use this and organize these activities.  I don’t think everyone has professional development budgets and it’s highly variable.  
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) The CEO has the influence to make leadership development for directors a higher priority.  This doesn’t seem to be his priority at this time.  
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - One specific I can share is the remote work structure.  He has been very good about allowing it but he has also put it in check and with the help of Lawrence and HR there is clear messaging around this.  He also understands the importance of in person
(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Most Effective:  I think his friendly and relaxed manner make him very approachable. He is a very curious person and is deeply interested in every topic and is willing to study and understand an issue before acting which is great. 

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Least Effective: I think his hands off approach can be a little confusing for staff who may be unclear of his expectations on a project which can lead to frustration, extra work and disappointment in final outcomes.
(COO) He seems to have hit a good balance of delegating these activities to others to drive them forward and supporting them to be successful, including participating himself.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Least:  He doesn’t communicate with the broad staffer.  The broader staff may like to hear from him more often.

Question 22: What could he do to improve or sustain current levels of accountability and performance management?
(DIRECTOR CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT) Recognition by the CEO of good performance, team outcomes, etc. Everyone likes getting recognition. We don’t do that enough around here. A mention in the Monday newsletter that no one reads isn’t quite the same. 
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) However, there is a lack of clarity among staff regarding the criteria for earning a spot bonus, as this is not publicly shared even among the executive team. The lack of transparency and understanding contributes to animosity among departments and individual team members when news of spot bonuses are mentioned in casual watercooler conversations.  More staff are working much longer hours and some even on weekends due to heavy workloads. Conversely, there are also staff that are at 50-60% capacity. As the Academy evolves to meet the demands of its membership, this presents a good opportunity to evaluate each department/division’s deliverables, impact/contribution to the organization and workload. Leveraging new technology to improve efficiency and recalibrating staffing resources across divisions, if applicable, can promote greater equity and accountability.

(VP Quality and Data Science) I think that he has been clear about accountability and not having staff in roles that they are not proficient in.  It might be good to have that evaluated throughout the organization and have the accountability and outcomes-oriented emphasis re-emphasized.  On the other hand, there also needs to be work-life balance; many are doing a lot of work and a lot of hours, so there also needs to be some attention on balance.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) It would also be very helpful to have more performance management training for managers. Not just, how to develop performance improvement action plans or terminations, but also how to coach team members who are looking to apply for a promotion.
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) Recommend working on alignment with the senior leaders and organizational culture of performance.  

(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - I think he is doing fine in this regard.  I don’t have a lot of direct exposure to the accountability and performance management that he uses for the executive team.

(DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I do not see him supporting well-being or career improvement other than supporting whatever already existed before he took his office.

(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) I have struggled with the metrics and data reporting so that The CEO understands performance in our division. I hope that with the new CRM system, this will become easier and provide transparency for The CEO on our work. I think once this tool is in place, The CEO could ask for more in-depth information and circle back each week to address what has been accomplished during the timeline imposed which is what I do with my team.  I’d like to know how best to report to The CEO. It would be good to have a template that each division uses with accountability metrics laid out.  This would be used to report regularly to him.
(COO) There is a sense that if a division makes money for the Academy, it is held to a lower standard of behavior. He models great integrity and Academy values and making clear that these standards apply broadly would help with accountability. Directly giving feedback when executives fail to collaborate or perform, share information or behave less respectfully (e.g., microaggressions) would reinforce the messages that Lawrence and Jen are sending broadly with his support. 
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) To sustain – just continue to offer the opportunity to meet with him and get feedback/input on direction.
(VP EDUCATION) Walk around the office in person and ask folks on the desk plate to give their honest feedback. Not only will you get unvarnished insight, but people will appreciate it and be compelled to support you in the mission…because you care about them and getting their insights.

Section 7: Stakeholder Relationships
Question 23: How does the CEO manage relationships within and outside of the organization?  
(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Dr. McLeod represents the Academy well with external stakeholders and partners. His management of the OMIC issue and working with the OMIC CEO to identify a mutually positive outcome through continuous discussions and meetings over the span of a year is to be commended.  Recommendation: Dr. McLeod has a minimal presence with internal staff. He remains an enigma to many individual contributors. I would encourage Dr. McLeod to consider increasing his visibility and engagement with the at-large staff team as this can be impactful in shaping the Academy’s organizational culture and cultivate a sense of connection (and engagement) among individual contributors. Incorporating a town hall meeting component at the all-staff meeting, attending division gatherings, or hosting a virtual coffee chat or office hour a few times a year can build stronger relationships and also humanizes this position. 
(VP Quality and Data Science) This is done on a 1:1 basis; most of the stakeholders he already knows well and he has established trust and respect with these stakeholders. 
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) We have a diverse membership and I think the CEO does a good job of engaging with our members. Even though we may not always do something that a member or segment of our membership would like, I think they respect those decisions because of his engagement one the issues.   By paying attention to their concerns, ideas, and feedback, the CEO has been able to build trust with our members by managing and meeting expectations, operating with integrity, and keeping promises. I think this also applies to how he manages his relationships with his counterparts in other organizations. We collaborate with a lot of other organizations on our advocacy campaigns, and I think the fact that the CEO wants to be an active partner in finding common ground and solutions has won the respect of his colleagues.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Dr. McLeod was incredibly effective at representing the Academy when he testified before Congress.  He manages external relationships very well and with great care. 
(VP MEETINGS) The CEO seems to have good relationships with ophthalmic leaders around the world. He knows a lot of people and that has been useful.  His relationships are not strong inside the organization. To most of the staff, he appears to operate on a separate level. Again, it’s not clear if this is his desire or the COO’s desire to be the funnel. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I have limited exposure to how he is perceived by the outside world but from interactions I have been part of the industry leaders like and respect him.  The same holds true for other ophthalmologists (members). The Board members all seem to like him and more importantly respect him and value his input on any topic. Within the organization I have not heard a single negative comment. That is saying something.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) Whenever I have asked the CEO to speak to a key stakeholder or member, or I have witnessed his interactions with board members, he is engaging, kind, wise and starts from a listening perspective which is so important.  Even in a potentially contentious situation, he diffuses the situation and the person he is speaking to leaves feeling he has been heard and action items are in place to further mitigate any further problems. He is a very effective manager of relationships and I have learned much from him. 

(COO) The CEO weighs in very directly and effectively, drawing on his networks.

(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) The CEO regularly takes part in external meetings which continue to grow his network, familiarity and influence  

Question 23a: Do you have any examples of how he manages relationships inside or outside of the organization?
(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) An example within the organization of how he manages relationships is that we had a collaboration issue with one of our most important state ophthalmology associations in terms of the direction of our lobbying strategy.  We’ve been butting heads with them for a long time.  We provide them a grant to cover the lion’s share of their advocacy expenses.  They asked for an unprecedented ridiculous sum of money.  He then gave a presentation that created a collaboration but asked for their work to match funds and then contribute Academy staff, monetized to show impact and support and partnership, even though it was tenuous circumstances.
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) He is diplomatic, very good at finding balance between getting Academy’s needs across without shaking relationships.  He will go to bat for us. If an industry person is being aggressive, he will step in and tell them they are out of line.   He works with other specialty societies.  

Question 24: Does he effectively represent the company’s interests and values in these interactions?
(VP Quality and Data Science) Yes, he is very cordial and respectful but also is firm and confident in representing the Academy's interests and values.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Yes.
(DIRECTOR OF MARKETING) Yes.  His testimony to the House Subcommittee on VA eyecare was impactful. 
(VP MEETINGS) Yes. He represents the Academy well on issues he knows about as the Congressional testimony supports. It will take a while to be fully up to speed on everything. 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) Yes, he always represents the Academy, and it is mission and the overall goal of all doctors and specifically ophthalmologists.
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) Yes. Coming from a patient centric organization, he seems to see everything the Academy does is for the members and through the members being effective, the patients.  Additionally, and with great importance, he continues to offer DEI to the conversation whether it be how we nominate for committees or boards, or how we as staff are mindful of others as we work together, as we engage future hires, and more.

(MANAGER BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Yes, from what I have observed, he always has the Academy’s interests and mission top of mind.
(COO) Yes. He does seem overstretched with some of his travel and stakeholder commitments. 
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Yes.  Board of Trustees and Committee leaders and members are impressed by his leadership.
(VP EDUCATION) Yes, it is clear he represents the Academy well as evidenced by his testimony in Washington vis-à-vis the VA supremacy initiative.

Question 25: Please comment on what behaviors make him least or more effective?
(VP Quality and Data Science) I think the intellectual scope and breadth of the CEO leadership is impressive and helps others respect his perspectives and the thoughtfulness of his approaches.  I think he has a more natural introverted personality type, but he works hard at this, and it looks effortless to be outgoing and engaged with others.  
(VP MEETINGS) The CEO seems to have a reluctance to engage. So many issues would be resolved immediately if he would pick up the phone or send an email to whomever is having the issue.  Members don’t want to hear from staff – they want to hear from the CEO. And often, they don’t want more than for the CEO to hear their issue.  Now, VPs are having to engage which only delays the inevitable. 
(VP FAAO - Foundation) The CEO’s overall demeanor is reassuring, professional and inviting.  His direct outreach and consistent “showing up” to build relationships with key partners is priceless, even if at times uncomfortable or outside his preferences as a more introverted, scholarly person.
(VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) The CEO is excellent ‘on his feet’ when presenting and answering questions on any area of Academy activity/program, etc.
(VP EDUCATION) It is clear the Board of Trustees appreciates his openness, and their reactions are very positive that has resulted in a collegial environment with robust discourse. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) The CEO’s confident, yet humble way of explaining complex topics makes him a more effective representative of the Academy. 

Question 26: What could he do to improve or sustain current dynamics?

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) The CEO has a minimal presence with internal staff. He remains an enigma to many individual contributors. I would encourage the CEO to consider increasing his visibility and engagement with the at-large staff team as this can be impactful in shaping the Academy’s organizational culture and cultivate a sense of connection (and engagement) among individual contributors. Incorporating a town hall meeting component at the all-staff meeting, attending division gatherings, or hosting a virtual coffee chat or office hour a few times a year can build stronger relationships and humanizes this position. 
(VP Quality and Data Science) The CEO might need to spend more time with specific external stakeholders to cultivate relationships.  
(VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) I would recommend that the CEO continue to communicate consistently and finding new ways to demonstrate/enhance the Academy’s value to them is key for sustaining our relationship with our members. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I think the CEO should continue to seek opportunities for subspecialty and state societies to provide input. Council meetings and OLAG help Academy staff better understand the specific issues facing these groups. Paired with those “listening sessions”, I think more could potentially be done to show what the Academy is doing to support these societies.
(VP MEETINGS) I think the CEO could engage sooner with volunteers and leaders when issues arise.  VPs can only take the conversation so far. The members want to hear from the CEO and I think if he engaged sooner, issues would not escalate as much. I am seeing him participating more in important discussions with members and volunteers, so I think this is improving already. 
(COO) Keep doing what he is doing.  I can’t imagine the CEO has any extra bandwidth to expand what he already does. Short of that I don’t know what he could do to improve the relationships. As with the executive team, continuing to keep in mind the audience and having compassion for their limitations compared to his own capacity. 
(VP EDUCATION) I would recommend the CEO continue efforts to be transparent/open to listen/encourage development of new ideas.

Section 8: Overall Impact and Leadership Effectiveness

Question 27: On a scale of 1-5, how would you rate the CEO’s overall effectiveness as a leader?  1 being least effective and 5 being extremely effective.

Director of Health Policy 4.7
DIRECTOR 3.6
VICE PRESIDENT 4
VICE PRESIDENT 4
VICE PRESIDENT 5
Manager Board of Trustees 4
COO 4
VP Government Affairs 5
VICE PRESIDENT 4
DIRECTOR 3.80
DIRECTOR 4
DIRECTOR 4
VICE PRESIDENT 4
VICE PRESIDENT 4
DIRECTOR 3
VICE PRESIDENT 4
VICE PRESIDENT 4
General Counsel and VP 4.5
Director State Government Affairs 5
DIRECTOR- 4
Director of Public Health Relations 5


Question 28: Are there any additional areas to improve or sustain?

(DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH RELATIONS ADVOCACY) I think Dr. McLeod is a great leader of the organization and staff morale and motivation to work towards the Academy mission very high. Given that he took over during the period when the organization was emerging from COVID and a much different way of doing things across the organization, navigating us to where we currently are is a major accomplishment. I think continued improvement in driving the organization (SF/DC) to be more cohesive and aware of various actions/priorities across divisions, with an emphasis on ensuring that this information is shared from Executive Team to staff. 

(VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCE) Dr. McLeod is an effective leader and Academy CEO. I believe he has the vision to advance and transform the organization. I hope he will increase his presence within the staff so more staff can see and understand his leadership style and vision and be more engaged with the work they do to help advance the organizational goals.   Dr. McLeod is an effective leader and Academy CEO. I believe he has the vision to advance and transform the organization. I hope he will increase his presence within the staff so more staff can see and understand his leadership style and vision, and be more engaged with the work they do to help advance the organizational goals.
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Keep doing what he’s doing. When needed be more direct in his messaging to the Executive team and others. 
(VP FAAO - FOUNDATION) I’d just say that the points I made above, with communication and method of communication is key to consider.
 
(DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I truly love working with him. That is not to say it’s always easy. But I get the feeling he cares. And only wants to promote the Academy and our members along with the vision space in the world.

(DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM OF THE EYE) All staff recognize how busy The CEO is and that a lot of the day-to-day leadership of AAO must be delegated. If he wanted to improve his leadership among staff, he could attempt to attend individual division meetings or write a few more all staff emails so we “see” more of him. 
(COO) Summary: Improve clarity of messages and expectations, have patience with the diverse perspectives and capabilities of leaders and staff inside and external to the Academy, personally model work-life balance to sustain and retain a strong team.
(VP EDUCATION) Lead with the language of not being afraid to try new ideas/initiatives. Adopt a startup mentality is a good reference point. Focus on the “why” as that will coalesce the organization’s mindset. 
(DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) Engagement of front line to executive leadership expertise and input is recommended.
(VP IT) I would recommend improving engagement and collaboration with the staff broadly and most importantly the Executive Team.  Continue learning about the staff and define and make the culture what you want.  
(General Counsel and VP) I think the CEO is one of the most impressive and effective executives with whom I have ever worked. I think the primary way for him to improve would be more direction at the outset of projects, and more mid-process check-ins to ensure alignment. My work tends to be wasteful and duplicative when The CEO and Lawrence aren’t aligned.  Lawrence is trying to translate what The CEO is asking.  In the Executive team, Lawrence will do most of the talking, The CEO doesn’t talk until Lawrence asks him if he’s on the right track.  It would be more comfortable if it were coming from the CEO, he assumes the COO spot. 
(DIRECTOR STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Example: We were having a problem with one Oph that was refusing to get involved.  So we couldn’t get this guy involved to have his mouthpiece involved.  It was Dr. McLeod who said he would call him, and talk with him about what was going through his mind, to see if he could tell him what was at stake.  He followed through, he got back to me and we’re on the same page.  I said to myself “I can totally work for this guy”.  
