This document provides insights into the effectiveness of Dr. Stephen McLeod, CEO of the Academy, in communicating the organization’s vision and strategic direction. Feedback from various stakeholders within the company highlights strengths in clarity and engagement, alongside areas for improvement such as frequency of communication and message consistency. Recommendations aim to enhance alignment across the organization and ensure Dr. McLeod's vision translates effectively into actionable goals. This section serves to evaluate and provide constructive feedback on leadership communication within the Academy.

Section 1: Vision and Strategic Direction
Question 1: How effectively does the CEO communicate the company’s vision and strategic direction to the executive team and broader organization?

Feedback:


(GS- VP OPH SOCIETY & GLOBAL) Regular (weekly) Executive Team meetings provide opportunity to share CEO’s vision and strategic directions with VPs as well as to respond to questions.

(BM- DIRECTOR of STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Very effectively. Academy staff and physician volunteers seem to be very responsive to his vision

(JK-VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCES) Dr. McLeod has a clear vision for the Academy and to ensure its relevance and sustainability. He is a visionary and thinks several steps ahead, which at times may feel abstract and very distant from day-to-day operations. Although there is discussion among the executive team and board level about the organization’s mission, vision statement and organizational goals, it’s unclear if the broader staff team has a clear understanding of the strategic direction and objectives. The broader team relies on the executive team, directors, and managers to convey and interpret the organizational direction and goals. This may dilute message consistency and focus. 
(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) Stephen effectively communicates his high-level vision and goals for the organization. He is a visionary leader, with a growth-oriented mindset for the Academy. It is not his intention to run business as usual, but instead, to improve Academy operations and expand its footprint and reputation. He has made clear his goals to grow the Academy’s operations and reputation, and his expectations for the Executive Team to help implement those goals.
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE) Extremely well. 
(BB-DIRECTOR of MARKETING) To exec team: possibly quite well, but to the broader organization, not very well. I think the org relies on the VPs to communicate stuff to their teams and not all the VPs share information well (or at all). There’s not enough communication directly from the CEO to the organization. 
(SM- DIRECTOR of PUBLIC RELATIONS) Dr. McLeod’s decision to establish True North Pillars with strategic priorities early on was an effective way to communicate his vision and direction. Establishing a level set across the Academy was extremely important. Being able to see his priorities in writing was helpful to all staff, in my opinion
(JC- VP IT) He is a visionary.  I would recommend he speak more about strategic vision and strategy with the executive team and staff. He should also verify that his audience follows what he is saying. I have seen some instances where he has discussed a topic/direction, and it was hard for some to determine their next steps from his communication.
(RH- VP OF GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) In my experience, the CEO can clearly articulate the Academy’s vision/strategic direction/policy. 
(BK- DIR HEALTH POLICY) Dr. McLeod is very effective at communicating the company’s vision to the director team and broader organization. Strategic direction is less impactful as it’s filtered through the executive team, who then effectuate the tactics specific to their team.  
(DE- DIR of BRAND & CREATIVE) The development of our True North Pillars with strategic priorities is useful and important. However, it is often challenging for those department/divisions within the organization, who interact with all or most of the Academy divisions, to properly align and efficiently prioritize work to achieve long term objectives.
(DR-VP of MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) I think this is an area that could be improved. While I believe that Stephen feels he is clear, he often speaks with academic words that some may not know and speaks in a roundabout manner so it’s difficult to follow what he is saying.
(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) – DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) I am not always in the room when these things are discussed. From my limited exposure with the executive team I have heard his vision and direction very clearly.  From the perspective of the broader organization the message tends to get watered down or abbreviated. My assessment of his vision is use our time better, don’t do more, do what we do efficiently.  Think about ways we need to evolve as an organization.  We will die on the vine if we don’t change.  There doesn’t seem to be a correlation between becoming more efficient (per leader) will translate into saving or protecting sight.  
(TMGOV- VP OF THE FOUNDATION)- Stephen presents to the broader organization succinctly and well. I enjoy listening to him communicate his vision and strategic direction at the board meetings.  When asked, I’m not quite sure what his vision or strategic direction really is, I understand more projects vs. where we are headed as an organization.  There seems to always be new things.  The vision is almost so many projects, they are coming all at once.  When Stephen communicates, he gives you bullet points and doesn’t give you more than that.  We miss the mark sometimes.  Sometimes we don’t.  Stephen communicates eloquently at a high level. With the executive team he is not as clear, and his style is not to be directive though he is a visionary and has our deep respect.  He has lofty, innovative goals for the organization, but it is left to us to really focus on what he is saying, listen carefully to understand what he is asking of us to meet his objectives. He wants us to work with our teams and respond in a timely way to what he needs from us even if we only heard it once and sometimes, we don’t get it right. I think this is where he depends on Lawrence to translate or direct us. Much of the time Lawrence is not happy with how we respond, stating for Stephen that this isn’t what Stephen wants or this is not what he said, so there is often a lack of clear communication and therefore lack of understanding about the project direction.  It also happens that we attempt to do what we believe is asked of us by Stephen and report up to Lawrence as gatekeeper who continues to be unhappy sending our work product back for multiple revisions.  My work tends to be wasteful and duplicative when Stephen and Lawrence aren’t aligned.  Lawrence is trying to translate what Stephen is asking.  In the Executive team, Lawrence will do most of the talking, Stephen doesn’t talk until Lawrence asks him if he’s on the right track.  It would be more comfortable if it were coming from Stephen, he assumes the COO spot. 

(DM-DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) I’m not part of the executive team so can’t effectively comment there. As to Dr. McLeod’s direction to the broader organization, I find him an effective speaker and writer, and he asks for engagement—he would rather talk with someone, not to her. He is more accessible as a result. I don’t have a strong sense of his overarching vision, but he stresses quality and the trust that the Academy brand engenders, and protecting these seem to be his primary interest.   What I know about the vision and direction is only from my VP, no one else.  For the strategic direction, it’s through Lawrence or other VP’s to translate what his vision is.  Not clear.  North Pillars maybe? 

(JBENJ- DIRECTOR OF THE MUSEUM OF THE EYE) A year ago Stephen rolled out the idea of True North Pillars with fiscal year deliverables. It is currently time to set goals again and I haven’t heard anything about the pillars this year. In general, Stephen does an excellent job briefing us about what is going on at the all-staff meetings. It is understood that the projects he describes are part of the Academy’s strategic goals, but they aren’t often framed up, so staff can see how they align up to the pillars…or a larger (multi-year?) strategy. 
(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He is very mission driven and always ties projects back to our True North pillars.
(LMENDEN- COO) He has set an excellent vision and direction for the organization and team. It has taken time for it to be communicated and he has relied on others (e.g., Lawrence), which is helpful but there is no substitute for direct, short and easy-to-understand messages from him.
(GAIL SCHMIDT- VP SOCIETY and GLOBAL RELATIONS) Regular (weekly) Executive Team meetings provide opportunity to share CEO’s vision and strategic directions with VPs as well as to respond to questions. It is beneficial for CEO to continue to communicate following Board meetings to All staff – direction; major outcomes; any new programs/issues, etc.  This engages/motivates all staff and makes them feel part of a broader team. Sometimes he needs to provide ET with greater clarity – as
non-physicians, we sometimes need more explanation
(DALE FAJARDO – VP EDUCATION) I believe the CEO communicates the company’s vision and strategic direction quite well. His efforts to focus on the Academy’s byline (protect sight, empower lives) are very much appreciated (especially from a symbolic lens)..



Question 2: Please comment on what makes him least or more effective?

Feedback:

(GS- VP OPH SOCIETY & GLOBAL) Least effective: It is beneficial for CEO to continue to communicate following Board meetings to all staff – direction; major outcomes; any new programs/issues, etc.  This engages/motivates all staff and makes them feel part of a broader team. Sometimes he needs to provide ET with greater clarity – as non-physicians, we sometimes need more explanation
(BM- DIRECTOR of STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) He is a tremendously engaging speaker who captures his audience’s attention with a quality that makes it seem he’s talking directly to you in a clear and pragmatic manner.
(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) Stephen is very clear about his overarching goals for how he would like to see the Academy improve its existing operations, as well as his ideas for new projects or programs.
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE) He is very articulate and consistent in his communications, and the vision and strategic direction is well aligned with his actions and behaviors.  
(JC- VP IT) Not clear in his direction with the Executive Team, people are left without knowing what to do after he speaks. 
(JC- VP IT) He is credible and authoritative when he talks about vision and strategic direction.
(RH- VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) While the message he is trying to convey is clear and well thought out, it can sometimes be difficult to hear our CEO speak in certain large meeting settings if there isn’t a microphone or in zoom meetings taking place in a conference room. 
(BK- DIR HEALTH POLICY) I find the CEO section of our All-Staff meetings effective at communicating vision. Whenever we’re able to have them, 1:1’s with Dr. McLeod have helped me feel more clued into the strategic direction of the Academy. 
(DE- DIR of BRAND & CREATIVE) The feedback I have heard from staff is that they really like to hear from him, but that he can sometime talk a lot. I would recommend being more concise communications would make him more effective.
(DR – VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) He obviously is very smart and knows a lot, but it appears he sometimes has trouble explaining things so everyone can understand.  I consider myself a smart person and I sometimes lose what he is trying to say. When speaking to the staff, he looks visibly uncomfortable and tends to ramble, so the message is lost. 
(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Director of Finance He speaks very purposefully.  I find it very effective. .  Efficiency is what he wants better. He should say “we need to be more efficient” and needs to give us more clarity on what, how to think about it, and how do we organize around being more efficient? He should tell Lawrence, the COO, how to orchestrate this. More targeted or specific messaging would only further his vision and strategic direction for the executive team and the broader organization.
(TMGOV- VP OF FOUNDATION) Stephen is very effective as a visionary leader. He has brought so much new and exciting programs to the Academy in a short period of time and is moving us up and onward. I feel like his positivity is contagious. I enjoy working with him.  I think all of us as staff would like see him present an in-depth, comprehensive, all-encompassing vision regarding the ways he envisions the organization cross divisionally with all of his new initiatives working together towards an Academy 2.0 under his leadership. I understand there are many big initiatives underway and more coming (like coaching which is something new I just heard about) so overarching his voice is what I want to hear.  

(DM-DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) Dr. McLeod keeps an academic air and his written communication sometimes favors the Henry James school over the Hemingway—which is to say, it can be florid or tortuous. I think he may get more mileage from straight shooting when his perspective needs to be understood immediately. I see this level of directness in correspondence with the executive team (which I do sometimes see, too), but when the message reaches the broader organization, it’s sometimes a labyrinth. His communication around vision is abstract and haven’t heard from him directly.  I appreciate that he wants engagement and wants debate and is not autocratic.  It feels empowering to me with being really engaging.  He leans in physically, however with Dr. Parker (old leadership), you could see the body language that wasn’t inviting at all.  Dr. Parker would circle around to everyone before the meeting, get the answers and then communicate the results without a lot of engagement in the actual meeting.  Dr. McLeod is much more democratic and solicits debate.  
(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He likes to let the team develop ideas without much direction or input from him. I think this works some of the time but there are times when it seems as though he has a direction/plan in his mind that he would like a project to move in but doesn’t really communicate that to staff and is then disappointed when they don’t deliver what he was envisioning. 
(LMENDEN- COO) Repetition and consistency of the vision and direction have helped make the communication more effective. The level of nuance, discussion and volume (number) of words and concepts that he is comfortable with, coming from an academic environment, make communications less effective to broad, diverse groups.
(GAIL SCHMIDT- VP SOCIETY and GLOBAL RELATIONS) Possesses great vision and willingness to move the Academy in new directions which is exciting. Very transparent; trustworthy; appreciates and actively seeks input.
(DALE FAJARDO- VP EDUCATION) He is very effective by leading from the front and by example. Going to the Hill to testify before Congress is a shining star example. 


Question 3: Recommendations on what he could do to improve or sustain current actions?

Feedback:

(GS- VP OPH SOCIETY & GLOBAL) Greater clarity to the Executive Team and Staff.  Make it easy for everyone to ask for clarity.  Have consistent and engaging communications with staff, and the broader organization.  His direction is lost in translation to the people that get the work done. 

(BM- DIRECTOR of STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Perhaps a regularly scheduled communication – not necessarily a verbal presentation, but perhaps a quarterly update to the staff from his POV.  

(JK-VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCES) Effectively communicating the company’s vision and strategic direction is crucial for alignment and success across all levels at the Academy. Regular vision sharing sessions where the broader team can hear directly from Dr. McLeod can help bridge this gap. While I understand the CEO is tasked to advance the organization and thinks at the 30,000-feet level, staff is also leaning in on him to articulate the vision in more tangible terms. Providing context and utilizing real-time examples and use cases can help the broader team understand the “why” and “how”, which can improve staff engagement and understanding of how they individually contribute to the vision statement of “To be the most valued and credible professional eye care organization.”   *The executive team can benefit from a strategic planning retreat lead by Dr. McLeod to discuss the intricacies of the Academy’s overarching vision and direction and to elucidate the vision*. This is an opportunity for Dr. McLeod to share detailed insights, contextualize strategic decisions and address any questions to ensure the executive team is equipped to translate this into actionable goals and initiatives, and alignment across business units.

(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) One area of improvement might be to offer more specific details about his expectations of new projects. More concrete plans, and sometimes even steps to implement those plans, might help ensure smoother and quicker implementation of his vision. As stated above, the Executive Team and the Academy might benefit from Stephen offering more concrete and incremental goalposts toward accomplishing his larger goals. 
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE) I think that although it might not seem to be needed, perhaps repetition of vision and strategic direction would help to solidify this.  
(SM- DIRECTOR of PUBLIC RELATIONS) Sustaining and reinforcing the vision overtime appears to now be dependent on individual VPs to keep the Pillars at the forefront and holding their staff accountable, at least from what I’ve observed. Communicate, clarity and integrate his vision and direction into daily operations in a seamless way might help sustain his current approach. 
(JC- VP IT) I would recommend he speak more about strategic vision and strategy with the executive team and staff. He should also verify that his audience follows what he is saying. I have seen some instances where he has discussed a topic/direction, and it was hard for some to determine their next steps from his communication.
(RH – VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) Be clear, with adequate volume so your audience can hear you.  
(BK- DIR OF HEALTH POLICY) More frequent 1:1’s. Perhaps twice-yearly Town Hall meetings with all the directors?
(DE- DIR OF BRAND & CREATIVE) Coming from the top down, it is critical to have as much alignment within the organization in terms of communications, business practices and standards, organizational culture, and technology. These are things where I see an opportunity to bridge some gaps and evolve how we work. This could help staff meet speed-to-market demands of final deliverables and achieve a more rewarding and fulfilling work culture where there is increased communication, collaboration, and innovation.
(DR- VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) He may benefit from a communication coach to help refine his body language, focus his message and learn to speak at a level meant for the public (8th grade reading level or lower). 
(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Director of Finance More targeted or specific messaging would only further his vision and strategic direction for the executive team and the broader organization.
(TMGOV- VP OF FOUNDATION) I respect his style and approach which is one of delegation, however, we take two steps to get to one every time Lawrence takes on the role of communicating for Stephen. 

(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) Communicate more clearly and directly with staff to ensure they understand project priorities, direction, and expectations.
(LMENDEN- COO) Focus on communicating in short, digestible bites that reach more listeners with other styles. Repeat and stay consistent with those messages. 
(GAIL SCHMIDT- VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Continue to relay the ‘why’ we are moving in a new / different direction, so everyone understands and is in alignment with his vision.  Could also encourage communication from the VPs to their respective staff. 
(DALE FAJARDO- VP EDUCATION) At time he might use “ums” as he is developing his thoughts in front of an audience. Many may see it as thoughtful reflection of a brilliant mind, but if used too often, it may be distracting. 

Section 1: Leadership Style
Question 1: Can you describe the CEO’s leadership style, and how does it impact the organization’s culture and performance?

Feedback:


(BM- DIRECTOR of STATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) What makes him effective is that he doesn’t lead by carrying a “big stick,” or by “top-down” edicts from up on high (i.e. “my way or the highway”), but rather as a consensus builder by engaging all stakeholders. That said, he exudes great confidence and resolve in his decisions, which I believe resonates with the organization’s staff.  

(JK-VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCES) Dr. McLeod is a visionary leader. He possesses strategic foresight and anticipates industry trends and environment shifts, which enables him to lead the Academy to pivot and retain our positioning as the global ophthalmology leader. 

Dr. McLeod has a clear vision for the Academy. However, as an introvert, he does not have a prominent presence among the broader team to help cultivate a cohesive organizational culture, particularly pertaining to accountability, recognition, and resource allocation. 

(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) Stephen is very good at setting forth an overall view for the Academy, and the ultimate goals of new projects or initiatives. He values group discussion, and allows the Executive Team to discuss their different views, even when that process gives rise to divergent opinions. The positive effect of this approach is for each member of the Executive Team to feel heard.
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE) Leadership style is to lead by example, provide vision and strategic north pillars, place a high weight on well thought out, advance preparation, thorough approaches to problem solving.

(BB- DIRECTOR of MARKETING) I would describe his leadership style as quiet, which makes it challenging to know where we’re going.
(SM- DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) From what I’ve observed, he is data-driven and takes a scientific approach to addressing issues. Use of an A3 approach to tackle issues/problems helps guide staff to appropriate solutions. He seems approachable, though I haven’t engaged him proactively. 
(JC- VP IT) Collegial, collaborative, authoritative, and informed. Stephen’s leadership style gives the staff confidence that we are doing what is best for the members and heading toward new initiatives that will fit the Academy’s mission.
(RH – VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) From my perspective as a member of the Academy’s Executive Team, I have found the CEO’s leadership style to be collaborative because he involves us in the process and relies on us to help convey this information to our teams and physician leaders.  I think this collaborative style has brought a new energy to the Academy’s culture and our staff’s performance as people feel more connected.
(BK- DIRECTOR of HEALTH POLICY) Dr. McLeod’s leadership style is collaborative. He’s well informed on all the issues, but he lets the subject matter expert take the lead. I think this establishes a culture of trust for our organization and encourages employees to be or become more confident in their own expertise.
(DE- DIRECTOR of BRAND & CREATIVE) I would like it to be more transformational if that is possible. In terms of organizational culture, I believe if you ask different people within different roles, you are going to get different answers. It would be beneficial to have an agreed upon culture where there is more alignment with communications and behaviors within the organization.
(DR- VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) I think we’re still learning his leadership style.  There is limited direct access to him. It’s not clear if Stephen wants the COO to be the middleman or if the COO wants it to be that way, but there is much less direct access to the CEO for many of the VPs than there used to be with previous CEOs.  This makes everything take longer because the VPs are often the ones who know the details of an issue.  It would be more effective and efficient to have them in the room when their issue is being discussed.
(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Director of Finance He is very thoughtful in everything he does. For me and I think for the Academy there is a calming effect.
(TMGOV- VP OF FOUNDATION) There are many new faces at the Academy, so I don’t know how Stephen’s style impacts the culture.  Many work remotely and it is difficult to ascertain what the culture is like these days.  On days like a Wednesday where we have more staff in the office, it would be great to see Stephen walk the halls and say ‘hello’.  It seems trivial but matters greatly to have that one on one connection to him from time to time.  It seems that everywhere I turn at the Academy every division feels they are too lean and need more people. I wonder how Stephen views staffing for revenue driver’s vs divisions which require revenue to succeed.

(DM-DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) Dr. McLeod’s leadership seems a balance amongst democratic, participative, and bureaucratic. He regularly seeks input from the larger group, seems to deliberate carefully and make inclusive decisions. He participates directly in meetings that his predecessor observed only, and he seeks active discussion and critical pushback against his own ideas. Occasionally, he favors firm policies and processes. In all I believe his leadership style encourages feedback and ideas from the larger organization, which supports growth and iterative change.   
(JBENJ- DIRECTOR OF THE MUSEUM OF THE EYE) One of Stephen’s strengths is his relaxed affect. Although I wouldn’t characterize him as having an “open door” policy, I wouldn’t hesitate to approach him in the hall and say hello. I believe his leadership style is best exemplified by his asking staff to call him Stephen, rather than Dr. McLeod. This small thing puts people at ease. His speaking style at all staff meetings is likewise informal and as a result, I think staff see AAO as a friendly, collaborative workplace. 
(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) He has a relaxed and casual style that makes people feel at ease. He is always friendly with staff and keeps his door open when he is not in meetings, which is very welcoming. He doesn’t micromanage and seems to prefer a more hands-off approach offering direction when it is asked for, but this can sometimes lead to a lack of clarity for staff who want to make sure his expectations are met. 
(LMENDEN- COO) Very positive, very transparent, extremely strategic substantively and as far as relationships. Assumes everyone is as smart and committed as he is. These have helped inspire and fuel a positive culture and performance. Also very high standards—too high in some cases?—which are inspiring for some but can demotivate others who aren’t as used to the hierarchical and competitive world he seems to love. He is a delegator used to having a large team of doers, also is my impression. He also seems overstretched, not acting with great self-care at times, which long term may lead to burnout or frustration. When stressed, his communication can be experienced as more adversarial. 
(GAIL SCHMIDT – VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Strongly encourages collaboration across Academy divisions so that we continue to move away from silos. Is democratic with a team-based approach making staff feel valued and unified.  This is beneficial at the staff level as well as at the Board level. When necessary, as in times of ‘crisis’, is appropriately directive.  Could be at times more directive.
(DALE FAJARDO- VP EDUCATION) I/we appreciate his relaxed leadership style that is based on an egalitarian approach. It’s been a refreshing change for the Board of Trustees, as the Board appears to be relaxed and willing to engage in more meaningful conversations, resulting/engendering a more engaged board, which is good. I sincerely appreciate his collaborative approach and willingness to listen to all colleagues at all levels of the chain of command. Knowing that he is open to input from all ensures that the best decision/strategy will come to fruition and be executed.


Question 2: What specific behaviors attribute to the CEO’s effectiveness as a leader?

Feedback:

(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) Stephen listens attentively to his Executive Team, and readily provides positive reinforcement. He says “thank you” readily, and acknowledges team members’ contributions, and these behaviors help build camaraderie and a sense of being valued.
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE). Brilliant, intellectual thinker, strategic perspective, very high ethics and moral compass, empathy, sense of humor.
(SM- DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) I’ve heard from others… He may get in the weeds too much in editing communication vehicles such as Academy Express and Eye Net; however, that’s not been my experience. He clearly prioritizes taking positions based on the latest, peer-reviewed science, and I appreciate that. He’s protective of the Academy’s earned reputation
(JC- VP IT) His communication style and level of engagement. 
(RH – VP GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS) He makes a point of meeting with the directors in the Governmental Affairs division when he is in the DC office and think that has been very effective in making them feel valued and that their opinions carry weight, particularly for some of our newer staff members. He doesn’t hesitate to get engaged in our advocacy efforts and frequently volunteers to reach out to key Academy members or his colleagues in other physician societies if it will be helpful for our efforts. I think that type of engagement from the top is important for our staff and physician volunteers to see because it is leading by example. I think it also makes them feel like their work/efforts are valued/appreciated by the Academy as an organization.
(BK- DIRECTOR of HEALTH POLICY) Active listening.  
(DE- DIR OF BRAND & CREATIVE) I think Dr. McLeod has integrity, confidence, and the ability to influence stakeholders.

(DR – VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) He is very smart. He knows a lot – about ophthalmology, health policy and other related topics.

(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Director of Finance What I have seen is the gathering of data and facts before action.  He also has a very easy manner about him which makes dialog collaborative.

(TMGOV- VP OF FOUNDATION) As a member of the Executive Team I feel that there is a high level of respect and attention paid to Stephen.  It is fortunate for me that I can hear directly from him and witness a high functioning team of professional’s work through challenges.  His style is calm and calming. He sets forth to always elicit opinions and his questions are posed to elicit ways to solve for a problem, not just manage top down with orders.  It is a very effective style.
(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) His humility and willingness to listen to all sides. He is a deep thinker and does a great job of considering a problem from multiple angles before offering a solution. I also find him very responsive to questions and easy to work with and I appreciate his quick responses to emails, even when he is traveling overseas.
(GAIL SCHMIDT- VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Visionary thinker; effective listener; brilliant; collaborative leadership style.



Question 3: How could he enhance or maintain his current leadership style to better support organizational goals?

Feedback:

(JK-VP MEMBERSHIP AND ALLIANCES) Increasing visibility and accessibility to him through routine touchpoints (e.g., in addition to CEO updates during quarterly all-staff meetings, consider attending a division or cross-divisional meeting on a key initiative to help frame the organizational objective) may enhance staff engagement and alignment with organizational goals.  

(MS JD- GEN COUNSEL and LEGAL) The team would benefit from more immediate concrete decisions on the specifics of how Stephen would like to see new projects implemented, to make workflow more efficient and avoid misunderstandings.
(FLMD and VP of QUALITY AND DATA SCIENCE) Continue to uphold the vision, the large initiatives that draw us closer to achieving our overall strategic goals
(SM- DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS) his focus on perfection may be making it stressful for employees who produce Academy Express and EyeNet, perhaps others.
(JC- VP IT) Continue to be collaborative, seeking answers from the executive team. Talk about his vision more with the staff at large so that they hear from the CEO where they fit in. Stephen’s introduction of the True North pillars is a big help, but connecting that with what he is saying helps culturally.
(BK – DIRECTOR OF HEALTH POLICY) I recommend providing directors (who have specific expertise in hot topics) a platform for doing presentations (internal or external) which would enhance his current leadership style of collaboration. It would also be a good way for the Academy to identify talent for succession planning. 
(DE- DIR OF BRAND & CREATIVE) Get the organization into alignment, clarity of communication, develop a culture of performance improvement.  Currently there is a high degree of variability and lack of alignment.
(DR- VP MEETINGS & EXHIBITS) Encourage more open discussion. Seek out other opinions to ensure he is getting the full story.
(MR- DIRECTOR OF FINANCE) - Director of Finance I think if there was visible messaging from Dr. McLeod (CEO) or Lawrence (COO) about the changes, challenges, and progress it would push everyone towards the common goals of the Academy.
(TMGOV- VP OF FOUNDATION) I’d suggest he maintain his leadership style with a caveat that he lead in front of Lawrence so that it cuts through the translation Lawrence places on “what Stephen wants”. 

(DM-DIRECTOR OF ONLINE EDUCATION) In meetings he expects discourse and would like to be challenged—it’s a bit Aristotelian. I think it’s effective. He is even-tempered and scholarly in most engagements—these support objective, lucid and evidence-based decision making at the organization level. He does not apologize when he overrides the group—he knows and appreciates his station, and he usually trusts the input of his staff first, I’ve observed. I don’t find Dr. McLeod exhibits charismatic or visionary traits. Both aren’t necessary but big audacious goals expressed clearly and with some measure of passion would probably help invigorate long-tenured staff who have been treading water and may have become complacent.  Please attempt to be more charismatic and visionary and circle with the departments once a month to check in with us. He has a good sense of humor but in larger group settings being more charismatic and not so abstract would help.  It would help if he was more personal and charismatic.  
(LOUISE OWEN- MANAGER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES) I think he could be more direct and clearer in communicating his expectations and intended outcomes.  
(LMENDEN- COO) Be willing to be the bad guy would make what he says more effective (not being unkind, just being less subtle and more direct), whether around organizational change or performance. Protecting against burnout, which can drive frustration. Working on making his communication shorter and more to the point for average listeners, as mentioned in the communications comments.
(GAIL SCHMIDT- VP SOCIETY AND GLOBAL RELATIONS) Continue to consider new opportunities for Academy as he has already effectively demonstrated. Perhaps engage Trustees-at-Large with assignments. Consider opportunities for International Trustees to effectively contribute during in-person BOT meetings.
(DALE FAJARDO- VP EDUCATION) Through his openness to new ideas is critical to arriving at the best outcome, he does have the license to be more directive so there is no ambiguity in his expectations. He is brilliant and a nice guy…People need to see that. Once they do, I expect they will be there to fight for his cause(s). People are the critical resource to ensure success. I’ve brought him to my division meeting and people appreciated hearing from him directly. Likewise, it also validates what I as the VP had stated previously, since our messages are in congruence resulting in a virtuous circle of trust and team engagement necessary to accomplish the mission.
